<STARS>3.0</STARS>
<TITLE>DX not quite all that</TITLE>
<DATE>June 13, 2009</DATE>
<AUTHOR>Susan Lynn Umpleby "Susan Umpleby"</AUTHOR>
<PRODUCT>Kindle DX Wireless Reading Device (9.7" Display, U.S. Wireless) (Electronics)</PRODUCT>
<REVIEW>
I owned the K1 and then the K2 and love them both, so I was really looking forward to the DX.  My plan was to use the DX at home, and keep my K2 for carrying all over creation with me. It wasn't long, though, after my DX arrived the day before yesterday before disappointment set in.
 
 Don't get me wrong, there is a LOT to like about the DX:
 
 1) Pictures are awesome on it, if the publisher formats them properly.
 
 2) Those who complain about darkness of text on their K2 (a problem I've never had, btw) will be thrilled by the DX's very dark text.
 
 3) The ability to rotate the screen is great.  Gives you a closer look at things like maps and charts.
 
 4) The browser is a bit faster than on the K1 or K2, though that isn't saying much--it is still very clunky to use.
 
 5) But web pages look pretty good on the DX.
 
 6) It holds 3500 books.
 
 
 BUT.....the DX just isn't all that.  It has drawbacks that are really making me consider sending it back before my 30 days are up:
 
 1) First and foremost, while it is true that it natively reads PDFs, it is really only a PDF *viewer*.  You can't change the font size on PDFs, links will not function on them, and the ability to magnify pictures doesn't work on them either. So you better have LARGE fonts on your PDF before you load it.  Looking at the PDF in horizontal mode helps a bit, but not by much.
 
 2) The DX is too big to hold comfortably.  It's not really all that heavy, but it is top heavy and you feel a pull on your hands.  And that pull is really evident if you try to use the keyboard while holding it--you practically have to lay the DX down flat, it becomes so difficult to type.
 
 3) They merged the number keys with the QWERTY keys (losing a line of keys). What development genius thought it would be helpful and an "improvement" to have to press the ALT key every time you wanted to type a number?!?
 
 4) Before my DX came, I really didn't think this would bother me at all, but I have to say: I really HATE the fact that the "next page" button is only on one side. I mostly use the left hand button. And yes, with the DX's rotation ability you can turn it upside down, placing the "next page" button on the left side.... However, when you do this, the button is so high up that you have to slide your hand (not your thumb, your whole hand) up in order to turn the page. May sound nit-picky, but it is truly a PITA to break off reading to do it. Not only that, but having the keyboard at the top makes it even more top-heavy than when it is right side up!
 
 5) when you rotate the DX so that it is horizontal, the "next page" button is either at the bottom or the top--in either case you can't just flick your thumb and change the page. Again, a PITA.
 
 6)  If you leave the rotation feature on "Auto" when you are not using your DX it drains your battery, so you must remember to turn the feature off when you stop reading.
 
 7) Still no folders.  An organization nightmare three times bigger than that of the K2 (which itself had increased the same problem on the K1):  the possibility of storing 3500 books but only being able to sort them by author, title, and "most recent first."
 
 
 
 I will be fiercely debating with myself in the next week or so, on whether I really want to keep the DX.  It is so disappointing.  It has the potential of being a really great e-reader...but as it stands now, it isn't.  It's OK.  But for $489, it should be a lot more than merely OK.
 
</REVIEW>