<STARS>4.0</STARS>
<TITLE>Compelling Story, albeit Plagued with Problems</TITLE>
<DATE>July 22, 2008</DATE>
<AUTHOR>Lit Chic "~Stephanie"</AUTHOR>
<PRODUCT>Twilight (The Twilight Saga, Book 1) (Paperback)</PRODUCT>
<REVIEW>
Bottom Line: The author really didn't have enough time to let this mature, and didn't have a good editor. You need both to create something really enduring.
 
 I read an article the other day in the Dallas Morning News about the disposable book:  how publishers are now out to milk authors for all they can get in the short-term, with no thought to longevity or sustaining a publishing relationship. I'm sad to find this so true.
 
 I was pretty much overwhelmed by fellow teachers who are obsessed; I was actually awed the other day when two colleagues got into feverish exchange over whether Bella should ultimately choose Edward or Jacob. It was at that point that my own fate was sealed and I knew I had to read it. I digested it in less than a two-day period, and now I will quickly outline the Good, the Bad and the Ugly:
 
 The Good
 I'm surprised at the people who attack Meyer's characterization. She's actually pretty good at it. For the most part, her characters are fun, well-rounded, dynamic, complex--everything you want in a good story. Bella is believable and easy to like. I find it easy to identify with her, but as abnormal as I am, I can see how if I identify with her, others might find her completely foreign and unbelievable. :~) The only weakness that sneaks in Meyer's characterization lies with the bad guys; they're given very little opportunity to develop in relationship to the rest of the novel.
 
 Additionally, Meyer is very good at creating suspense. If nothing else, the book is a great page-turner. The reader is hypnotically bound to follow through simply by the sheer force of the words on the pages. The story itself is very easy to get lost in.
 
 Meyer definitely hit on an intriguing story-line. It's different, it's compelling. Unfortunately, it just wasn't enough.
 
 The Bad
 Meyer works a little too hard to make her 'good' vampires altruistic. There is a lot of explaining away, a lot of conveniences that in small doses do no harm, but over the long haul add up like water wearing down a rock. Further, the book is a little verbose for the material. A great deal of condensing could have been done to the book's benefit. Moreover, there are several places in the book that are meant to be one thing (like romantic) and come off as another (cringe-inducing). I sometimes felt like I was watching a personal fantasy, and whoa, that's not my thing....
 
 The Ugly
 Here's the rub: As much Meyer tries to make Edward good, nothing can atone for what he is. For Bella and Edward to go on forever the way they are is an impossibility. Everyone knows something has to give. The option given in the book, for Bella to become a vampire, isn't really allowable from a publishing standpoint. Think about it: The target audience is young adult. Most young adult readers are female. For Bella to become a vampire would send a message to millions of young girls that in order to 'get the guy' you have to cut yourself off from everyone who has previously cared about you and go through physical suffering and die an eternal death, going from human to soulless companion. Yikes! The political repercussions have me betting that Bella won't become a vampire anytime soon. The author has really written herself in a corner here, which wouldn't be fatal (no pun intended) if she could come up with something truly supernatural and redemptive for Edward to bring him back to Bella's level. But that's not so glamorous in today's climate. :~/
 
 There are other smaller problems, such as Edward's schizoid transformations from angry to humored and back, and the fact that (maybe I'm alone!) no matter how hard I tried, I couldn't envision a deathly pale and anemic looking guy who's really cold to be anywhere near attractive or sexually appealing or anywhere in Greek god territory. It could have something to do with the fact that my husband is a gorgeous blonde who just emanates vitality, and I'm too used to that, but I still found it so difficult to reconcile that it stood out to me.
 
 It seemed to me that these, and other smaller plot points, could all have been resolved with time and editing. I also found it unthinkable that there would have to be 3 sequels to resolve anything. There doesn't seem to be enough material to work with there while satisfying curious readers who really just want to know if there's any way for Bella and Edward to be together. 
 
 This is a great summer read for fun, but it pains me because it really could have been so much better. Overall, Meyer is an impressive author, but this is yet another read that goes into the 'good-but-could-have-been-genius' category.
</REVIEW>