<STARS>5.0</STARS>
<TITLE>First time webcam owner - Very easy to use</TITLE>
<DATE>October 10, 2007</DATE>
<AUTHOR>TheBandit</AUTHOR>
<PRODUCT>Logitech Webcam Pro 9000 / QuickCam Pro 9000 (Electronics)</PRODUCT>
<REVIEW>
Having never owned - or even so much as used - a webcam prior to this, I don't have much point of reference.  That said, the installation of this product couldn't have been any easier.  On my older desktop system, the installation only took a few minutes.  The laptop I have is much newer, and the software installed even faster.  Absolutely trouble-free, and within minutes I had a picture on screen and was able to take photos and make videos.
 
 The adjustable clip on the back of the camera is very effective - it doubles as a stand, which came in handy on my bulky old non-flat screen monitor.  On my laptop screen it was just as handy, resting firmly in place at the top of the screen.
 
 I was truly impressed by the video quality.  Again, I've never owned a webcam previously, but I've viewed many webcam videos posted on websites - and I was aware that the image quality ran the gamut.  The lens on this webcam produces a very sharp, detailed image.  Even in relatively low-lighting, the picture wasn't bad at all.  On my several years old desktop, the image didn't keep up with the movements very well - moving my head from side to side, for instance, resulted in quite a blur.  But on my newer laptop, that blur was reduced extremely - the movements registered in more or less real-time.  The auto-focus feature seems to do it's job pretty well, and makes operation very simple.  
 
 The audio quality was definitely less impressive than the picture - but it was right in line with what I expected for a little tiny built-in microphone.  Loud noises clip and/or distort - I tried playing my saxophone and the result wasn't listenable (though some would say that's due to my playing ability).  Yelling, or even extremely loud talking, clips.  But all things considered, when remaining at a distance of a couple feet and talking at a normal, even volume - the audio quality was very acceptable.
 
 I got a kick out of the various visual features.  There are a bunch of filters - my favorite is the '50s style, creating a vintage black-and-white scratched up film look.  Neonize was a trip - darkening everything on screen except for neon-colored borders to everything.  The 'ghost' filter gives a blurred tracer effect to all movement.  I don't know how much need I'll have for these, but they're fun to mess around with.  There are also a bunch of options to change the look of your face on-screen - including 'robot face' which makes you look like a cyborg or something.  I don't honestly know what the 'avatar' feature was supposed to do - I aligned my face within the red box like it said to, but nothing really happened ever once I initiated the feature...
 
 Bottom line - speaking for total, complete, 100% webcam novices like myself:  this is a quality webcam that I could not imagine being easier to use.  The video quality is top-notch.  My biggest criticism - and this is actually kind of minor - is the utter lack of a storage case or pouch for the webcam.  I don't plan to leave mine out all the time and I'd like to keep the lens (rightfully rated highly) in good shape.  For the time being, I'm actually putting it back in the box but even a cheap felt pouch would've been nice.
</REVIEW>