<STARS>5.0</STARS>
<TITLE>Great player, astounding video/audio, internet; very impressed.</TITLE>
<DATE>March 20, 2010</DATE>
<AUTHOR>DesignStuff "Don"</AUTHOR>
<PRODUCT>Samsung BD-C6900 1080p 3D Blu-ray Disc Player (Electronics)</PRODUCT>
<REVIEW>
(A tip to other reviewers: Don't rate an item if you don't own it. Some of these reviews are from people who haven't even seen this player!)
 
 This item arrived quickly, on a Saturday to our surprise, via Fedex. It's a gorgeous (if you like simple/shiny black) piece of AV equipment. At first, we were dismayed by what we thought were little scratches on the top - it was just a piece of protective plastic on it  that is removable; it does have a flawless finish.  
 
 I don't usually leave reviews even though I buy on Amazon frequently, and I feel a bit guilty giving this rave reviews as I work for a competitor, but they haven't come out with a similar product yet. We mostly wanted to upgrade the family room/media room for our teens to give them more reason to hang out home with their friends - I must say, that works. They can't wait to show off another blu-ray to friends (who are self-impressed audiophiles for the most part) who are very impressed. The only problem, is, we want to watch it as much as they do... we never used to watch TV this much. I know this sounds like an ad but really, it's that amazing.
 
 The tech stuff:
 The ease of setup, connection to the TV and the internet is simple and straightforward. One HDMI cable to TV (included w/TV), done. Plug in Ethernet if you don't want to use wireless. It's pure digital output - sound and video. It has a separate Digital audio out for those who were worried about the extra HDMI output. The sound is astonishing. Digital sound, can't beat it. (We're using it with a Philips Soundbar now, but the TV itself has great sound). If you don't have a hi-def TV it might not work as well, but then why buy it anyway? The instruction booklet is good clear English, not written by someone with English as a second-language. The only thing that looks daunting to me is the remote control, but the kids don't seem to have a problem with it.
 
 It performs beautifully in video and sound. It uses 1.4 cables (don't do what we did and buy 1.3 cables, besides the TV comes with cables). It runs on wifi to access the internet, and can download Netflix, Pandora, Youtube, etc., etc., content, and came with coupons for that. The kids like the internet part; we use it much less than they do.
 
 It works flawlessly with our TV. We own the Samsung UN46C7000 46-Inch 3D HDTV and love it; together it's a marriage made in Home Theater Heaven.  It's SUPER fast compared to other blu-Rays we have used. This is the first *3D* blu-ray we have used, and comparing it to regular 2-D blu-rays, it blows them all away. It up-converts beautifully and our 2-D blu-ray videos look like a dream on this.  
 
 We have only had it for days so we will write more when we have had more movies under our belts, but: older 3d movies look amazing, regular 2-D (most blu-rays are still) and downloads. All we can say so far is WOW. If you are interested in upgrading to a new 3D TV in the near future, this is a no-brainer to buy, 
 
 Movies we suggest to knock your socks off: 
 National Geographic 3D movies, Polar Express, Bugs!,the IMAX movies, and the new Micheal Jackson movie. Older teens liked the Bloody Valentine movie. The kids - even my son - reverted to movies like Snow White (the new blu-ray) to my surprise, just because it was so "flipping awesome" to watch on this player.
 
 WARNING: If you have a hard time pulling yourself away from the TV set (we never used to like we do now) - don't buy this. You won't want to leave the room.
 
 If you're looking for a top-notch, latest technology Blu-ray player with extras that's going to work quickly, this is a good buy. I've blathered on enough; check it out.
</REVIEW>