<STARS>5.0</STARS>
<TITLE>A Comic Masterpiece</TITLE>
<DATE>July 17, 2000</DATE>
<AUTHOR>J. Mullin</AUTHOR>
<PRODUCT>A Confederacy of Dunces (Hardcover)</PRODUCT>
<REVIEW>
This book is quite simply a comic masterpiece, a novel brimming with original characters, absurd situations, and at its heart a blustery, vulnerable mama's boy named Ignatius J. Reilly. He is one of the most  startlingly original characters in modern fiction, and his efforts at  hitting the job market after his mother smashes their car will leave you in  stitches. A word on the history of the novel is worth mentioning here.   The author, John Kennedy Toole, committed suicide in 1969, and his mother  found the hand-written manuscript in her son's papers.  She brought them to  a publisher, who dreaded having to read even a portion of the work and to  notify Toole's mother that it stunk.  Instead, he was blown away by Toole's  draft, and the rest is history.  The novel earned him a posthumous Pulitzer  Prize, and it is universally hailed by critics. Trying to summarize the  plot is impossible - the book cannot really be categorized.  Ignatius is an  over-educated  oaf who stays home filling his writing tablets full of his  offbeat musings on ancient history, which he plans to organize and publish  some day but which presently reside all over his bedroom floor. Rome wasn't  built in a day he reminds himself.  He cites in footnotes, as authority for  some of his offbeat opinions, papers he had previously written and  hand-delivered to the local university library for inclusion into their  archives.  He watches dreadful tv shows and movies, howling at the screen  with a mixture of delight and loathing at the teenybopper drivel, and in  the privacy of his room his self-gratification is performed while imagining  visions of the old family dog. And wait til you see him out in public,  getting a series of odd jobs, including a filing clerk at Levy Pants (with  very innovative filing techniques to avoid crowded file space) as well as a  costumed hot dog vendor wandering around the French Quarter in a pirate  costume. All the while he begins work on his latest opus, The Journal of  the Working Boy. There is a latent sadness to the plot, for while you are  laughing out loud at Ignatius, his bowling-addicted mother, and the motley  crew of skillfully drawn supporting characters, you sense that he will  never really belong anywhere, and that he realizes his outcast status with  his innate intelligence. Perhaps the author felt the same way in 1969,  leading to his own suicide.   However, at least Toole did leave us A  Confederacy of Dunces, a novel which reveals more with each rereading.   Keep it on your shelf, and every now and then pick up the book to any page  and marvel at the absurdity of Ignatius's grandiose ramblings, read exerpts  of his bizarre historical writings, and revisit his comic efforts to  organize a worker's revolt at Levy Pants. The list goes on and on. There is  no work of litereature like it I know, and my only regret in reading Toole  is the sorrow felt in knowing the tremendous body of work that was lost  when he ended his life.
</REVIEW>