<STARS>5.0</STARS>
<TITLE>Exciting Return of Eisler's Character, Ben Treven</TITLE>
<DATE>May 8, 2010</DATE>
<AUTHOR>Gregg Eldred</AUTHOR>
<PRODUCT>Inside Out: A Novel (Hardcover)</PRODUCT>
<REVIEW>
In 2007, operatives working out of the Vice-president of the United States' office were informed that there were ninety-two missing videotapes. Those tapes documented the extreme torture of ghost detainees, individuals captured and whisked away to secret prisons, people who simply disappeared. Waterboarding, while documented on the tapes, was not the worst thing that happened to the ghost detainees. Ulrich, the lead operative, crafts a plausible story to spin to the media, which allows everyone else to sigh in relief. 
 
 Two years later, someone surfaces, contacts one of the operatives, and tells him that he is in possession of the ninety-two videotapes. He will release them to the world's media in five days if he is not paid $100 million in small, uncut diamonds.
 
 In a Manila jail, Ben Treven is awaiting his fate for the killing of an Australian sailor. Ben was a member of an elite squad of men who "fixed" problems. He was hand picked for the squad because of his skills in stealth, observation and tactics, and use of deadly force. Waiting out his days, he is visited by his old commander, Colonel "Hort" Horton, who has a proposition; find and detain the person that is blackmailing the United States government. There are not many clues, however Hort believes that a dead man has the tapes, a person who died in an explosion in Pakistan in 2007.
 
 Treven wants out of the jail, but he also wants a measure of revenge from Hort, who tried to kill him, his brother, and a female lawyer when an advanced encryption software program was being readied for market. Treven accepts the offer.
 
 It isn't long until Ben discovers that he isn't the only person looking for the tapes or the blackmailer; the FBI and CIA are on the case as well. The CIA is willing to kill in order to recover the tapes. Ben's unique skills as a military assassin will be tested if he is to be the first to the finish line. 
 
 Barry Eisler has published another excellent novel that focuses on a character, Ben Treven, whom he introduced in his 2009 novel, Fault Line. Inside Out propels Ben to the forefront; you learn more about him, his training, his background, and the skills that make him so effective and deadly. Should you be unfamiliar with Fault Line, do not worry, Eisler provides a few references, but they are not necessary to the story line of Inside Out. What you will become familiar with in this novel are some of the darkest secrets of government. While Eisler has crafted an excellent thriller, it isn't until you reach the Sources and Bibliography that you realize that he has scripted a fictional account of real events.
 
 That is not all, however. Eisler works some other ideas into the novel, ones that will make you reconsider what you think you hear, what you think you know. For a work of fiction, it is startling in its depth of research, as presented by the bibliography. Further, Eisler worked another of his characters, John Rain, into Inside Out, which bodes well for regular readers of his novels. The future is bright for Eisler's fans and those that like thrilling action, well defined characterization, believable dialog, and thought provoking story lines. 
 
 Disclosure: 
 Obtained from: Amazon Vine Review Program
 Payment: Free
</REVIEW>