<STARS>5.0</STARS>
<TITLE>Review for Non-Gamers</TITLE>
<DATE>September 27, 2007</DATE>
<AUTHOR>Greeper</AUTHOR>
<PRODUCT>Halo 3 (Video Game)</PRODUCT>
<REVIEW>
I'm not a gamer, just a regular 30something who wants an easy way to take out my frustrations.  This review is probably most helpful to middle aged men like me, not hardcore gamers.  
 
 I have tried many other games but Halo is the only one that doesn't tax me too much with choices and complicated controller requirements.  I give the Halo franchise 5 stars because it is so simple, one mission, kill everything in sight.  You don't need to investigate, open your pouch, choose between a million weapons, read maps, or think for even a second. It's the only game I've found which I can stand for more than 5 minutes and which is completely uncomplicated. And you can skip the story and all that nonsense by just hitting the main button.  
 
 As compared to other Halos:  I'm not crazy about the weaponry.  The needlers run out of ammo and the other guns don't do much. You also need to press a button to reload some weapons, it seems, whereas before they would reload if you walked over the same kind of weapon.  THere are 3 kinds of grenades, which is unnecessary and just harder to switch between.  You can also only carry 2 of each instead of 4.  Since the new grenades stick like the plasmas, they don't add much and just add another layer of choice and button-pushing.  Too complicated.  Also, the little bonus things like flares and landmines are gimmicky and add too much comlpication.  Again, advanced gamers probably love it, but I'm too old to learn all this new stuff.  Just give me a gun and some grenades.  
 
 In previous games you'd come across more types of things to do, like a lot of sniper rifles so you could sit on a hilltop picking off aliens or use other strategy.  In this game you don't find a lot of useful weapons, so there's a lot more direct hand to hand, on the ground type combat.  I've also found that it's easier to kill things and easier in general to solve the levels.  Also, it uses the "follow me" arrow and the voice gives you suggestions if you seem to be missing the point, which I like, since in previous Halos I've spent hours wandering around wondering what I'm supposed to be doing.  No such problems here.  They've sufficiently dumbed it down.  
 
 I've had a few graphic glitches in this one, which has never happened before.  I've also gotten stuck and unable to get out of things twice.  THe sound and graphics are great, of course. I've never paid any attention to the story, unless it required me to, so I can't comment on that.  Kusdos to Bungie for making it easy to skip over.  
 
 Overall, this is the same experience as the others, though it seems easier than Halo2.  As little thought as that required, this one requires less. I've not had to think at all about weapon choice, strategy, or anything,  Just pull the trigger and kill!  I wish there were more FPS games like this -- fast-paced, completely intuitive hand controls, easy storyline, simple mission, and FUN.
</REVIEW>