<STARS>4.0</STARS>
<TITLE>A much better compilation then last time but still not quite right</TITLE>
<DATE>June 28, 2005</DATE>
<AUTHOR>Hamish Gavin</AUTHOR>
<PRODUCT>Megadeth - Greatest Hits (Audio CD)</PRODUCT>
<REVIEW>
Out of the big 4 thrash bands of the 80s, Megadeth has always been my favourite. Theyve had a great array of awesome albums, slightly altering their sound in the 90s but not as much as some (Ahem Metallica). Their last Greatest Hits release Capitol Punishments was a big disapointment though, mainly containing 90s singles and also 15 tracks including 2 new ones is not enough for a complete Best Of collection. So I had hopes for this one, being fan chosen to deal the goods. In some ways it does but its still lacking some essential songs. 
 
 The album is presented in a completely random order but it probably is better then Capital Punishments newest to oldest tracklisting. Again there is more songs chosen from the 90s albums, being there is more of them but this still disapoints me. Only one song Mechanix from KIMB and only one from SFSGSW which definatly needed at least one more. Wheres Mary Jane or even Anarchy in the UK? Peace Sells gets one more song (Wake Up Dead) then it did on Capital Punishment which is pretty good but RIP has exactly the same as it had on Capital Punishment. I definatly would have included one more from that, it is widely regarded as their best album. 
 
 Countdown to Extinction recieves 3 songs, Skin O' My Teeth which wasnt included on Capital Punishment but for the life of me i cant figure out why they chose this song over Ashes In Your Mouth which as well as being a far superior song recieved more votes on the [...] forums. But I guess final decision goes. Youthanasia recieves the 2 hits good songs but they dont measure up to Countdown to Extinction. Its great Angry Again was included from the out of print Hidden Treasures. From Cryptic Writings, Trust and She-Wolf. Trust was a big hit and She-Wolf was a fan favourite so its great to see it on here. Risk, the album where they apparently sold out recieves one favourite, Prince of Darkness which is a much better song then the Industrial flavoured Crush Em' that was on Capital Punishment. Next up is Kill the King, one of Mustaines favourites so we all knew it would be included although im not too pleased about it as it was the bonus track on Capital Punishment and not really needed here. Good song though. Then Dread and the Fugitive song, the only song included off The World Needs a Hero. Would have liked to see another song from that album on here because this was included on Capital Punishment as a bonus track as well.
 
 And thats where it ends. Yes nothing off The System Has Failed which is by far their best album since Youthanasia. I dont know what Mustaine was thinking but its obivous a 2cd package was needed to fully display all that Megadeth could be. Wheres Tornado of Souls, Devils Island, Maybe some live tracks or other classic Deth? Kick the Chair, Blackmail the Universe, Die Dead Enough or any song from The System Has Failed? The bonus DVD is all well and good but its pretty much just an extended teaser for the upcoming Arsenal Of Megadeth DVD. Its still a very good hits compilation if you want to get into megadeth or if you are a Megadeth completest but for your average fan its not really worth it. I would personally just skip any Greatest Hits CD and go straight to the studio albums, which is where the magic really happens.
</REVIEW>