<STARS>5.0</STARS>
<TITLE>I'm really impressed with the kit and the beer it makes</TITLE>
<DATE>December 13, 2008</DATE>
<AUTHOR>J. Gypton</AUTHOR>
<PRODUCT>Mr. Beer Premium Gold Edition Home Brew Kit (Kitchen)</PRODUCT>
<REVIEW>
My wife got me this for my birthday last month, and I was really excited about trying it out...which, like a kid with a new toy, I did almost immediately. The instructions are easy to follow and the components are easy to assemble and use -- I had my first batch (of 'Cowboy Lager') sitting in the keg after about 45 minutes of reading and work in the kitchen.
 
 The minimum amount of time the mix needs to sit in the keg is 7 days -- I let this first batch sit for 11. The longer the time in the keg, the more flavor it's supposed to develop. I bottled the mix -- 8 liters in all -- and that was another simple process, going exactly as described in the instructions. The beer has to ferment in the bottles for no fewer than 7 days in order to carbonate. My 8 bottles are still sitting, after 8 days. I plan on letting them sit for another week before putting them in the fridge so they'll be 'conditioned' in time for Christmas.
 
 I did, however, make an extra bottle from the first batch, in an extra bottle I had. I drained the keg almost dry to do it, even pouring in some of the sludge that had settled at the bottom. The stuff was orange and cloudy! I let that sit for the minimum 7 days, and let it condition in the fridge for only 1 (although the instructions recommend at least a week). I wanted to try something close to the minimum standard for the mix and the kit in general...and I have a mug of the stuff next to me as I type. Final verdict on this 'minimum mix' -- it's quite good! It was adequately carbonated, and produced a smooth head that had a nice smell and flavor. The beer itself is about the same color as a typical American brew -- Coors or Michelob -- and has a very light flavor, with a slightly dry aftertaste. It's something I could enjoy in the middle of summer. And remember: this, according to the instructions, is the swill. The better stuff will come out of those bottles that are going to ferment for another week before I cool them.
 
 I'm fired up! I made my next mix today -- American Blonde -- which was also included in the set. I'll let that sit in the keg even longer to see how the flavor develops. All in all, I'm really happy with this as a present, and even happier about what's it's produced. This isn't just a gift that seems cool: it's already exceeded my expectations.
 
 This section added on 8 June 2009: I'm now carbonating my 17th two-gallon batch. Yes, that's a lot of beer, considering that each batch makes 20-24 bottles, depending on how much water I decide to add (sometimes a little more if it's a heavy brew with a lot of ingredients). ANYWAY, I'm still as fired up about this thing as I was when I got it. We've bought two six-packs and one twelve-pack of beer from the store since December, and that was mostly to harvest bottles for future use. I do not miss buying beer at the store...mine is better, and cheaper, too. My only recommendation is to get 12-oz brown glass bottles, a hand-held capper, and O2 barrier caps -- then you can bottle your own 'normal' bottles, and you can reuse them. The 1-liter PET bottles that came with my set are fine, as they keep the carbonation well, but I don't like opening that much beer at once unless I have people over. Standard bottles are far more convenient. Mr. Beer rocks. That is all.
</REVIEW>