<STARS>5.0</STARS>
<TITLE>Fantastic book to help you jump start your health!</TITLE>
<DATE>April 30, 2002</DATE>
<AUTHOR>Dave Y. "nobody777"</AUTHOR>
<PRODUCT>Toxic Relief - H/B (Hardcover)</PRODUCT>
<REVIEW>
Did you know that your liver is the size of a football and weighs about 5 pounds?  Me neither... Well, I do now.  But believe me, there's a whole lot more information in this book that little tidbits like that (hehe).  That "slim-fast" drink diet has nothing on a live juice fast!  If you wanna do things right, get this book and do it right! Your liver is the hardest working organ in the body and with our typical American lifestyle it is under enormous strain.  It will blow your mind to discover just how much toxin the liver works to eliminate from the body and how critical the liver is to your quality of life and protecting against and fighting disease.  Your liver does about 500 or more different processes, many of them at the same time.  It works constantly, without rest to keep you alive and well. Toxic Relief will make you want to eat right and make you afraid not to.  You'll want to be a lot nicer to your liver after reading this book.  The book takes you step by step through a process of liver detoxification (2 week program) and juice fasting (which follows the liver detox - actually the 2 week program is to jump start your liver so that you will gain the most effective results from the juice fast and eliminate, safely and effectively, the most toxins from your system as well reap the most healthful benefits of the juice). Not only does Dr. Colbert tell you how to go about juice fasting, he tells you what kind of juicer you need, where to buy it and even how much to expect to spend.  He lists the important vitamins, minerals, amino acids, herbs and other nutrients and foods that are most beneficial to liver detox and restoring health to the GI tract (your intestines and digestive system) and he tells you how much of each to take, when to take it, and how.  He also lists and explains the foods that are harmful to your liver.  The book also includes juicing recepies for each day during the fast (morning, mid-morning, afternoon and evening).  There are six recipie veriations for six different types of drinks for each time of the day or you could apply a different drink for each day of the fast.  The recepies are fantastic and enormously simple, but it's also fun to totally create your own concoctions.  Dr. Colbert tells you what juices are most important, even for your particular blood type, and tells you specifically what juice should make up the bulk of each drink. Dr. Colbert spends the majority of the book discussing the health benefits and healing qualities of juice fasting and liver detox, but also explains the spiritual benefits of fasting and gives some practical tips about how to approach a spiritual fast. This was an excellent book!  Not boring in the least and gives you real information that you can put to use right away.  He's not trying to sell the reader on some product or multi-level marketing scheme.  This is just good information on how to jump-start your immune system, increase energy, fight disease, look and feel great!  Every person in America should read this book and follow its prescribed program.  I bought a juicer right after reading it and am on the program now!  WOW!!!  That's all I can say.  You're gonna feel amazing and you're gonna get a ton of those poisoness toxins cleaned out of your system!  Get this book!  You will not be disappointed, I promise!
</REVIEW>