<STARS>5.0</STARS>
<TITLE>Five Stars From a Life Long Shick User</TITLE>
<DATE>June 10, 2010</DATE>
<AUTHOR>Boilermate</AUTHOR>
<PRODUCT>Gillette Fusion Proglide Power Razor, 1-count Package (Health and Beauty)</PRODUCT>
<REVIEW>
To properly evaluate the new Gillette Fusion ProGlide Power razor, I decided to compare it to the new Schick Hydro 5 and my normal razor, a Schick Quattro Power. All started with a new cartridge and a fresh battery as applicable.
 
 I'll begin by saying that I've been using Schick razors for about 40 years and have not been too impressed by most Gillette razors. In particular, they tended to clog up more and were harder to keep clean. I was expecting to be underwhelmed by the ProGlide as well.
 
 ProGlide vs. Hydro 5
 Initial impressions:  Packaging: Both come in the standard plastic clamshell, but the Gillette is easier to open. The back is perforated for easy opening, where the Schick is more child-proof and requires a sharp object to open it.
 
 What's included: The Gillette comes with only one cartridge, where the Hydro comes with two.
 
 Holders: the Gillette snaps snugly in to the included plastic holder, while the Schick holder just has a small pin to locate the razor. You could use the Gillette's as a travel holder with no problem.
 
 Guarantee: The Schick comes with a money back guarantee. The Gillette assumes you will like it.
 
 The razors: While the Gillette looks more substantial, both weigh 1.4 oz fully loaded.  The Gillette has a single blade trimmer on the back  of the cartridge. Flip the razor 180 deg to use it. The Hydro's trimmer is under the lube strip that you flip back to use the trimmer.
 
 Cartridge mounting: The ProGlide cartridge slides on easily and snaps in place. The locator pin also acts as "suspension" for the cartridge pivot. The Hydro is a bit more imprecise. You have to line up two small spring loaded fingers on the handle with tabs on the cartridge. Not hard, but not as elegant as the Gillette. The Schick cartridge is smaller than the Gillette...less waste.
 
 On initial "hefting" the Gillette felt better, but in use both were comfortable and easy to maneuver.
 
 The Shave Test
 All of the above are secondary to the "Yes, But How Does It Shave" test. I shaved half of my face with the Gillette and half with the Schick, using Proraso Shaving Cream  and a badger bristle brush.
 
 Shave No. 1: (3 Day Growth)
 The ProGlide felt smooth in all directions, with and against the grain. No pulling on the neck or under the chin. The trimmer was easy to use.
 
 The Hydro was smooth on the cheeks, but pulled noticeably on the neck, especially against the grain. It left a couple of small "razor burn" marks on my neck. To use the trimmer you have to hold the razor with one hand and flip back the cover with the other.
 
 Both razors rinsed clean easily with no clogging.
 
 The Wife Test: Immediately after shaving, Mrs. Boilermate judged the Gillette side marginally smoother, but said that side felt sticky. After my face "dried" she still said the Gillette side was smoother.
 
 Shave No. 2: (2 Day Growth)
 The Gillette was smooth while the Hydro pulled noticeably on the neck and under the chin. The Gillette side was again judged smoother in the Wife Test.
 
 ProGlide vs Quattro
 Shave Nos. 3 and 4 were done with a two and three day growth respectively using the ProGlide and a Schick Power Quattro (with a new cartridge and a fresh battery).
 
 The first thing I noticed is the ProGlide is noticeably quieter, where the Quattro sounds like an electric razor by comparison.
 
 In both tests, the ProGlide performed as before, with no pulling or burning. The Quattro pulled slightly on the neck, but substantially less than the Hydro did.
 
 As before, the Gillette side was judged smoother by Mrs. B., tho by a similarly small margin.
 
 So what's not to like? The price of the cartridges. Schick cartridges are cheaper across the board than Gillette. Power ProGlide carts are about $4.00 apiece, where Quattro Power carts are about $2.50 each.
 
 While the ProGlide gives an excellent shave, doesn't shave enough better to justify switching from the Quattro based on the cost of the cartridges.
 
 Overall, though, the Gillette Fusion ProGlide Power rates five stars. As a life-long Schick user, I was pleasantly (and unexpectantly) surprised by this razor. If you can get past the price of the cartridges, I highly recommend this razor.
</REVIEW>
