<STARS>5.0</STARS>
<TITLE>When they talk of the Bible as literature, they mean the KJV</TITLE>
<DATE>May 7, 2005</DATE>
<AUTHOR>Lawrance M. Bernabo</AUTHOR>
<PRODUCT>Boldtext Pew Bible: King James Version (Hardcover)</PRODUCT>
<REVIEW>
The King James Version of the Bible (a.k.a. the Authorized Version) is an English translation of the Bible published in 1611.  Commissioned by King James I of England, 54 scholars were approved by the king of whom 47 labored in six groups at three locations for seven years making use of both texts in the original languages and previous English translations.  The result was a translation that had a marked influence on English style and literature because of its flowing language and prose rhythm, and was generally accepted as the standard English Bible for more than three centuries.
 
 When I was teaching A.P. English I strongly recommended to my students that the two supplemental texts they should have for class should be a copy of the King James Version of the Bible with a good concordance, and Edith Hamilton's "Mythology."  Of course in the age of searchable on-line texts such suggestions are of less value, but the religious and mythical allusions that appear in the works of Dante, Shakespeare, Milton and many other writers (not to mention politicians such as Lincoln), cannot readily understood unless you recognize them.  Just in the first 11 chapters of Genesis we have two creation stories, the fall, the story of Cain and Abel, the flood, and the tower of Babel.  All of these are major touchstone is contemporary literature.  What is the biggest money making movie of all-time but a retelling of the story of the tower of Babel turned into the arrogance of the construction of a ship that supposedly not even God could sink?  As for our willingness to accept different versions of the same tale, I can argue that comes primarily from our reading of the four Gospels since billions more have done that then read the three extant Greek tragedies on the slaying of Clytemnestra by Orestes (which everyone should also still be reading as literature).
 
 However, over the years I increasingly faced objections from students who felt that using the Bible as a reference book, or studying it as literature, was a waste of time since the Bible was not "true" (as near as I can tell the distinction between "true" and "True" is not germane to their position).  Of course, they failed to appreciate the irony that they were making this argument in a course devoted to studying the various forms of fiction.  But the book of Job is a didactic poem set in a prose framing device, which to me indicates it is a lesson rather than a true story and suggests it can be considered an extant fictional narrative (if not outright drama) contemporary to the time of the great tragic poets in Athens.  One that gets in the door as "legitimate" literature, the rest of the books of the Bible deserve the same consideration.
 
 To the extent that the Bible contains a coherent system of symbols, presents a tightly unified set of controlling themes, and explores the fundamental questions of human existence it functions as literature, without sacrificing its theological import.  Ancient history has long been treated as literature of a kind, songs have always been considered poetic, and epistolary writing counts too.  It should be kept in mind that while the Bible can be considered as literature as well as sacred writing there is also value in using the critical techniques of literature to read the Bible as scripture as well.  The Bible is also important to the study of comparative religion, history, archeology, cultural anthropology, and other studies of the human condition. 
 
 Most importantly, when it comes down to reading the Bible as literature there can really be no other choice than the King James Version.  The eminence of this translation has been codified by such diverse entries as "Bartlett's Familiar Quotations," which use the KJV as the source for all Bible quotations, and the character Linus in "A Charlie Brown Christmas," use recites the story of the nativity from the KJV version of the 2nd chapter of Luke.  At least to those of us who are Baby Boomers, this is the way the Bible should sound and the black imitation leather cover is appropriately old school as well.
</REVIEW>