<STARS>1.0</STARS>
<TITLE>Wow. And I don't mean that in the good way</TITLE>
<DATE>July 13, 2008</DATE>
<AUTHOR>Lindsay Beth Maruska "lindsaybeth85"</AUTHOR>
<PRODUCT>Twilight (The Twilight Saga, Book 1) (Paperback)</PRODUCT>
<REVIEW>
When I dislike a book, I often don't dwell on it, because what's the point, right? But my reaction to this book went BEYOND dislike, and I felt I had to vent about it a little bit to get it out of my system. 
 
 This book was horrible. Absolutely horrible. I bought it because it was featured in a magazine I read, and I'd heard good things about it, so I decided to give it a try...as a die-hard fan of Buffy the Vampire Slayer and fantasy literature in general, I thought it was right up my alley. I was wrong.
 
 First of all, I was *disgusted* by the main characters. I actually think one can dislike a character and still like the book/writing, but in this case, the main characters were pathetic and boring. The female lead (Bella Swan. Really. Bella Swan. Why not just call her Pretty McPerfect and have done with it?) is completely vapid. She has no goals, no dreams, no ambition, no personality aside from being miserable and obsessed with her boyfriend. Now, ok, it's romance. Fine. But romance can be accomplished...and often in a better way...if the participants have strong, defining character traits. It heightens the tension and makes the results much more satisfying. Bella had no defining character traits. I don't even remember what she was supposed to look like. She was selfish and misanthropic for absolutely no reason, and she acted like a spoiled martyr for far too many pages. It's really quite depressing that this book is being touted for teenage girls, because the main character is a HORRIBLE role model in every sense of the word. Why not portray her as having goals? Dreams? Ambitions? It would serve to heighten the conflict and make the book better in the long run.
 
 But anyway. The love interest, superhot vampire Edward, is downright scary. And not in like...the good way. He stalks her. He makes decisions for her. He doesn't listen to her views or opinions (not that she has any, really). He encourages her to lie. He puts her in danger...no matter how many times he whines about the emotional toll it puts on him, he still doesn't stop putting her in danger. He is cruel and arrogant. AND SHE ACCEPTS THIS! He keeps telling her how she needs him to look after her, how she would die or something if it wasn't for him. AND SHE IS NOT OFFENDED/ANNOYED BY THIS. Seriously! Even the most ambivalent feminist should find this insulting and derogatory! 
 
 There's absolutely no chemistry between the leads. She loves him because he is beautiful. He loves her because he wants to eat her and she smells good. Really. He tells her she is like his heroin. How is that in anyway healthy? She is willing to die for someone she barely knows, someone who plays mind games with her, who dominates her completely. She admits to being completely obsessed with him. And there are no consequences for this! She has no doubts about her emotions toward him!
 
 Ugh. I could go on, but I won't. I just want to say that this is probably the worst book I have ever read, and I'm not too far removed from the teen audience this book is geared to. I see no redeeming features at ALL, except perhaps the character Jacob, who seems like the only person in this entire book that has any interesting and healthy character traits. But now that I've gotten this out of my system, I do feel better. 
 
 In short...please don't read this book. Please.
</REVIEW>