<STARS>5.0</STARS>
<TITLE>Excellent sound, excellent value</TITLE>
<DATE>September 4, 2007</DATE>
<AUTHOR>J. Bakker</AUTHOR>
<PRODUCT>Sony SA-W2500 Performance Line 100 Watt Subwoofer (Electronics)</PRODUCT>
<REVIEW>
If you're thinking about buying a subwoofer, it is unlikely that you are a garden variety movie fan or lover of music.  People looking for subwoofers usually already have a decent system, but know that there is something lacking.
 
 When it came for me to buy one, three factors weighed in my decision: power, brand, and (of course) price.  I've grown up with what I have always believed to be a 'healthy skepticism' when it comes to Sony products.  My father had an early generation (1990ish) 5.0 Sony 250 Watt surround amp that performed extremely poorly in just about every function.  The only advantage it had over his earlier (1978) Rotel non-tube amp is that it had multiple component inputs.  The sound quality of the 50 Watt rated Rotel amp blew the Sony out of the water.
 
 In my search for a subwoofer, I was surprised to find so many good reviews of the Sony line.  I was looking for a better name than Sony, but when I compared prices, I was compelled to give the Sony at least a listen.  Comparable subs by Velodyne and others were far more expensive (double the cost of the Sony or more).  Listening to the Sony at the stereo shop, I must say that I was extremely impressed.  
 
 Is the Sony sound as good as the Velodyne or other high end subwoofers that cost 2-3 times as much as the Sony?  Of course not, but I quickly discovered that difference in sound quality was not at all closely related to the difference in price.
 
 Keep in mind that this is one of Sony's smallest and lightest subs (only 25 lbs), but once I brought it home and hooked it up to my 6.1 surround system and configured the frequency and volume on the back of the sub, it seamlessly expanded the low end range of my system for music and movie playback.  Before I learned (by experimenting with them) how to adjust the levels on the back of the sub, it was quite boomy and there was a bit of a gap between the low end on the six surround speakers and where the sub picked up.  When I made the appropriate adjustments, by trial and error, I found that this sub is an extremely versatile fit for my home.  My family room is 17'x14', and the back opens into a 10'x15' living room, and the sub easily fills the room.  When I crank the system for rock and roll music and movies, the sub has no problem keeping up and is easily capable of playing more loudly than is safe or enjoyable.
 
 Would I have liked a bigger sub made by a better brand?  Sure, but this one does the job (and then some) admirably, and for less than half the cost.  This sub gets 4 stars as a product, but I gave it 5 because of the extremely good value.  If you have a big budget and can afford to spend what it would take to buy a speaker that actually sounds better than one of these Sony subs, go for it, you will not be disappointed.  On the other hand, if you would rather spend less on a sub and still get excellent power and sound quality, this is as good as it gets without spending several hundred dollars.
</REVIEW>