<STARS>1.0</STARS>
<TITLE>IMO Mr Washington was a pure Deist</TITLE>
<DATE>December 1, 2009</DATE>
<AUTHOR>Mark A. Brochu "Deist Reality"</AUTHOR>
<PRODUCT>George Washington's Sacred Fire (Paperback)</PRODUCT>
<REVIEW>
It seems the main reason Dr. Peter Lillback calls George Washington a Christian,and not a Deist is because he believed in Divine Providence,or the belief that God is active in peoples lives. When we think of Divine Providence we think of the word Theism, and all the Abrahamic faiths that claim God personally spoke to key individuals called Prophets in the form of personal revelations.
 
 Understandably as words do change (proving that the written word is not a good vehicle for the "word of God") from their original meaning, Mr.Lillback confuses the word Deist with the word Atheist (non-Theist) which really is the opposite of Theist.  
 
 In todays world the word Atheist for the most part implies that there is no God.  The word Atheist has changed from its original meaning,but we know that whenever you add an "a" in front of a word it means the opposite,so its the Atheist that believes in a inactive God,and not a Deist.
 
 The word Deist is derived from the word Deism that is derived from the word Deity which is simply the Latin word for God. A Deist is just someone who believes that God is,and the word Deism just implies a path of understanding. 
 
 George Washington IMO was a Deist who was a Theist who followed the path called Deism.  He believed in God,he thought that God was active in his life,and he knew to look towards the Creation (the product that comes from God) to gain true insight.
 
 Since Mr. Lillback uses Thomas Paine for an example of a Deist we should at least take Thomas Paine's definition on who,or what a Deist is,and what a true Deist believe.  
 
 "Every person, of whatever religious denomination he may be, is a DEIST in the first article of his Creed. Deism, from the Latin word Deus, God, is the belief of a God, and this belief is the first article of every man's creed.
 
 It is on this article, universally consented to by all mankind, that the Deist builds his church, and here he rests. Whenever we step aside from this article, by mixing it with articles of human invention, we wander into a labyrinth of uncertainty and fable, and become exposed to every kind of imposition by pretenders to revelation"
 
 Thomas Paine thought that anyone who believes in God was a Deist (including all Christians) in the first article of his creed, which is the belief in a God. 
 
 Mr. Lillback states in his book that Thomas Paine was a "hard Deist".  "Hard Deist", apparently a new title that Mr. Lillback says he made up to describe a Deist that doesn't believe in Divine Providence,or again the belief in the God that went away,and no longer intervenes in mans affairs. Again a "Hard Deist" if we must use the phrase describes what an Atheist would think,and not what a pure Deist would think.
 
 Dr. Peter Lillback either never read Thomas Paines works,or he's out right lying about Thomas Paines character in matters of God. All self professed Deists in our founding fathers day believed in Divine Providence even Thomas Paine. So "Hard Deist",or even Atheist would not apply to Mr. Paine because Thomas Paine was a Deist (he believed in God) who was a Theist (he believed that God was active in his life) who followed the path called Deism.
 
 In Mr. Lillbacks book he quotes Thomas Paine several times,but he takes his words out of context to make his point clear about who,or what a Deist is,and what a true,or pure Deist really believes about our Maker.
 
 Before I quote some key phrases from Thomas Paine that clearly prove that he, like George Washington believed in "Divine Providence" I ask the reader to examine 
 
 "A Discourse At The Society Of Theophilanthropists"
 
 This was a Theistic church that Thomas Paine was a key founder. Proving that Mr. Paine believed in an active God right up till the end of his life.
 
 Thomas Paine called God "the Almighty lecturer".  God had something to say to Thomas Paine,and luckily for us he wrote most of it down in all his Theological writings.
  
 "The Almighty Lecturer, by displaying the principles of science in the 
 structure of the universe, has invited man to study and imitation. It is as if He said to the 
 inhabitants of this globe, that we call ours, 'I have made an earth for man to dwell upon, 
 and I have rendered the starry heavens visible, to teach him science and the arts. He 
 can now provide for his own comfort, and learn from my munificence to all, to be kind to 
 each other.' " 
 
 "The world has been amused with the term revealed religion, and the generality of priests apply this term to the books called the Old and New Testament. The Mahometans apply the same term to the Koran. There is no man that believes in revealed religion stronger than I do; but it is not the reveries of the Old and New Testament, nor the Koran, that I dignify with that sacred title. That which is revelation to me, exists in something which no human mind can invent, no human hand can counterfeit or alter.
 The Word of God is the Creation we behold; and this Word of God revealeth to man all that is necessary for man to know of his Creator."
 
 Mr. Lillback is using his own definition of what a Deist is to prove that George Washington wasn't a Deist,and his definition is wrong. Instead of making up your own definition of these words (Deist,or Deism) to prove your point why not get the correct definition from those who actually claim to be true,or pure Deists?  Most (not all) of todays self professed Deists of today like days of old will tell you that they believe in a active God. 
 
 Did George Washington believe that our Creator overshadowed a young virgin girl who was engaged to be married to save us from the sins of the world,and all the mythologies that would also need to be believed as fact to prove this absurdity?  
 
 George Washington was enlightened enough to know mythologies from reality.  Lets not taint this great mans legacy by saying he believed the Bible as an absolute literal truth just because you do Mr. Lillback.
 
 This book IMO in no way proves George Washington was a true Christian.  Like they did with the man called Jesus years after his death making him into something he was not Dr. Peter Lillback does this with our great American hero George Washington. Turning,or perverting true 'history" into his story,and twisting reality in the process.  People who look for truth will know the difference.
 
 Mr.Lillback, we're all Deists who believe that God is.  Where we differ is our path of understanding. If you want to learn all about the faiths of our ancestors then the Bible,Koran,and the like are a great place to gain insight, however if you want to learn about God then you must look towards the Creation,or all the products that come from God. I think George Washington knew this truth as he was surrounded by other enlightened "pure" Deists.
 
 Mr. Washington knew that books prove that man is real,and the Creation proves that God is real. 
 
 This book will look great next to the other fat book in the evangelical library.  Remember just because a book is thick,and fat doesn't make it fact.
</REVIEW>