<STARS>5.0</STARS>
<TITLE>An Amazing Book</TITLE>
<DATE>December 2, 1999</DATE>
<AUTHOR>Claire Harrison</AUTHOR>
<PRODUCT>The God of Small Things (Paperback)</PRODUCT>
<REVIEW>
"May in Ayemenem is a hot, brooding month," and so is Arundhati Roy's novel The God of Small Things. Imagine a cold piece of butter slowly melting in a frying pan, setting the scene for the cooking to come, and you  can see the way Roy's prose works. Words that are hot and brooding reel you  into an intricate web of family politics and social mores, evoking a  feeling similar to a written stream of consciencness.  	Roy writes in  layers, except that the layers are both added and taken off; I was reminded  of my childhood when I would eat wafer chocolates from the bottom and the  top, leaving the middle until last, because that was the best part. Roy  kindly dispells the, often torturous, anxiety of what happens in the end  early on in the book. The reader is told what happened before it happened,  what happened after it happened, and saves what happened for last. A format  that seemingly would put off a reader becomes its most appreciated quality.  	This book is for everyone; murder mystery, love story, epic saga all in  one. Even if you're not the romantic type, the social scrutiny of Indian  customs provides for interesting reading. However, if you're interested in  brain candy, forget it. There is too much to absorb. Emotion and intellect  are needed in order to understand the emotion and intellect that are  related. You could take in only what is superficially presented, as the  plot alone is worthwhile, but you would be missing so much. 	Rahel, a  dizygotic twin returns to the place of her childhood and subesequently a  place of unhappiness to see her brother, the other twin, after more than  twenty years of separation. Esta, the brother, has stopped talking, and  Rahel has stopped feeling. Their reunion allows for the remembrance and  grieving of their disasterous youths. They recall small things, seemingly  unimportant, yet vital to the reconstruction of their sense of inner peace.   	They are the same age as their mother when she died, thirty-one.  Their house is run down and the only relatives left from the monster in  their pasts are, in essence, only waiting to die. Entering their minds  through an omniscient voice, we are transported back and forth in time,  remembering small things, painting a big picture. We remember a cousin's  accidental death, and the death of another who served as a scapegoat. We  remember how fate can make the strangest families. We also remember Rahel  and Esta, and how they "broke the love laws. That lay down who should be  loved. And how. And how much." 	While the novel serves to shock the  reader from time to time, the pace is slow. Roy's style would be described  as somewhat verbose for the impatient, yet serves to parallel the way we  deal with emotions, hurt, and love in life.  Creating a paradox however,  this reader went back to re-absorb certain elements of beauty or truth, due  to a lack of time created by an impatience to find out what happens next. 	 Although usually overly critical of fiction, I would recommend this book  for anyone who likes to read intelligent literature. It gives the reader a  chance to realize how profound those small things really are.
</REVIEW>