<STARS>5.0</STARS>
<TITLE>Substantial and important book</TITLE>
<DATE>April 12, 2007</DATE>
<AUTHOR>Dom</AUTHOR>
<PRODUCT>Unlimited Access: An FBI Agent Inside the Clinton White House (Paperback)</PRODUCT>
<REVIEW>
 I found this book very interesting. I'm British, but I take an interest in American politics. In this book ex-FBI agent Gary Aldrich relays his impressions and experiences of the Clinton White House. 
 AS is obvious from some comments in reviews here, the fact that the book has the political arena as its background means some strong reactions will be stirred almost by default. 
 
 But I did not find Aldrich was trying to score political points. His is actually something of a matter of fact analysis of more nuts and bolts issues surrounding the functioning of the White House. And he obviously cares very much about the dignity, efficiency and security of the place. And indeed, through his work he is obviously very knowledgeable about it. Which was one reason I found the book interesting, because it allows a glimpse into some of the basic mechanics of the place at the centre of American politics.
 
 But even though I guess political loyalties will be fired up, it is quite plain to me that the book transcends these, and is in fact about what endures in the system of government beyond them. And although some individuals might get hot under the collar because of political considerations, nevertheless I suggest persons of any political persuasion should really be able to see the issues run deeper.
 
 As for the reliability of the book, surely, the obvious basic fact of the matter is that Aldrich is an eminently credible and authoritative source. His job was to dispassionately and meticulously assess character in the highest office in the land for the sake of the standing of that office. A job he evidently took pride in, took very seriously indeed, did well and was respected for. It's obvious to me the man had Public Servant written all over him. I suggest he has proven a faithful servant to his nation.
 
 I do not sense political opprtumism in this book, but moral courage. Aldrich seems to me to be a decent guy who felt it wrong to just shut up. And in so doing he offers an affirmation of the existence of bedrock decency in law enforcement agencies, itself no small matter.
 
 I can't imagine he took the decision to publish lightly. It seems there was something very wrong in the corridors of power and Aldrich felt duty bound to alert the country. No matter what actual political persuasion Aldrich himself may have, this book is not in itself about that, and I think it's only reasonable to recognise this in assessing it. 
 
 I think the book is actually well written, which is part of its effectiveness. But it's not the fancy writing of the novella, its that of the informed, matter-of-fact report. Aldrich cuts to the chase, and his style is fluid and concise, making it very easily readable.
 
 I highly recommend it. It obviously raises specific concerns, but more than that I think it raises fundamental questions about the nature of government in the USA; questions, for instance, pertaining to distinctions between process and personality, important issues when considering the mechanics of democracy.
</REVIEW>