<STARS>5.0</STARS>
<TITLE>Best Phone on Market</TITLE>
<DATE>April 24, 2009</DATE>
<AUTHOR>Aussie</AUTHOR>
<PRODUCT>Nokia 5800 XpressMusic Unlocked Phone with U.S. 3G,  GPS with Free Voice Navigation, Wi-Fi, and 8 GB MicroSD Card--U.S. Version with Warranty (Black) (Wireless Phone Accessory)</PRODUCT>
<REVIEW>
I had owned various phones in the past and Nokia is the best on any comparison, for the Features available on this phone, had Apple had all these features it will cost 10 times more, most people don't even know it has extra camera on the front for video Calls along  with the 3.2 MP on the back, Video is far better and there were no sluggish performance as far as I had used for more than a month, unlike iPhone this phone can run multiple applications at same time which is like multitasking in PC, so I can play music and browse websites at same time and switch to GPS , attend a call and type an SMS.. And it goes on...all at same time, iPhone cannot do more than one at a time, we get millions of free software, games, themes etc., unlike Apple App store, no need to pay more and more. Best feature, no MP3 conversion required, if you have lot of MP3 files on hard disk just drag and drop in few seconds, we can play, phone comes with 8GB of SD Card, can upgrade to 16 GB, that's more than enough, I had used the N95 earlier which costs double this price, this is not a NSeries phone from nokia, but it had all the features + touch screen of N series phone at half the price.
 
 If you like Garmin for GPS, Garmin GPS software available for this phone and installing that will make it the best GPS (it comes with Nokia's map software too) and no data plan or internet required for GPS as maps are copied to memory. It comes with lot of add on and Its not too big like iPhone and not too small, exactly made for using with single hand and I had replaced the blackberry phone used for Office with this and configured my Office outlook exchange server along with Gmail, hotmail and yahoo, how cool is that.
 
 It handles website just as a PC and there is no difference with any websites, I can login to bank accounts and do anything like PC, it has stereo speakers but the Nokia Headsets are far Superior in sound quality and build and it comes with built in Mic and buttons for music track change so we can play music and attend calls without touching phone.
 
 And FM is there to use while driving and at the Gym, Google has lot of software available for this phone like latitude, docs etc. If you want free chat software Fring (www.fring.com) is available for free, it connects yahoo, hotmail, AOL, Gtalk and Skype users all in one place and we can even make voice calls to online users. It has the great sync software that syncs all your photos, videos, contacts, notes etc between phone and PC using Bluetooth, just switch on the PC and it does the sync automatically. We can import and export all contacts from outlook, Lotus notes etc.
 
 And there is software to use the screen as a touch screen mouse for the PC like a wireless Bluetooth mouse and that's free too.
 
 For brand conscious users like me, I want to buy a phone from a telecom company like Nokia than a computer (apple) or TV (Samsung) company, who were just trying phones as one of their business.
 
 iPhone doesn't have many of these features and only selling because of marketing, if nokia did their part, this should beat any phone for sure, I don't want to lock with AT&T for lifetime with iPhone and pay $ monthly and pay for any applications and did I say its unlocked? What else you can expect from a phone?
</REVIEW>