<STARS>1.0</STARS>
<TITLE>Buggy disappointment - does not live up to its predecessors</TITLE>
<DATE>July 12, 2010</DATE>
<AUTHOR>Normally a Lego Game Fan</AUTHOR>
<PRODUCT>LEGO Harry Potter: Years 1-4 (Video Game)</PRODUCT>
<REVIEW>
Long time fan of the Lego Games by Traveler's Tales. I loved Lego Star Wars, Indy was good. Batman was my favorite. I must confess, I never played Lego Indy 2. Though, a disclaimer, I do not like the inspirational subject matter of this one near as much as the others, so it was already at a disadvantage. However, this game is so poor that I felt the need to tell everyone. 
 
 This game is just too buggy and repetitive for me. Perhaps its the subject matter, but the lack of character depth and variety in this one is just disappointing. Just basically the three main guys (Harry, Ron, and whats her name) with an occasional other guy. 
 
 That aside, it might still be a decent title. The huge problem with this one is the finicky controls and bugs (and I'm not talking about spiders crawling through the woods). The point and shoot interface of the Wii seems to be a little moody, especially when there is a clump of stuff you want to shoot. Once you lock on to one target, though you can add additional targets, you still have to shoot. That means if you accidentally lock on to another Hogwarts classmate, but you wanted to shoot a potted plant, you have to just shoot the classmate. Most of the time this doesn't matter, however, if they have been shot already, and they are provoked, this makes for an unneeded attack. 
 
 Also, if you are in a level where the game is counting towards "True Wizard," if you shoot a bunch of stuff at once because you are already locked on, you will not have time to grab everything before the studs disappear. 
 
 The next issue I have with this game is the purple floating spell. On multiple times, this has happened. Sometimes you have to levitate an object, and float it to another spot on the screen. Sometimes, it gets stuck, and you have no choice but to restart the level because you cant even float it out of wherever it is stuck. For example, in the level where Ron and the girl are chasing Dobbie in the Quiddich stadium, there comes a point you have to levitate a heavy ball, and connect it to a hanging rope to cause the gate to go up. Well, if you (either accidentally or mistakenly) put the ball into the ladder hole you climbed up on, the ball gets stuck. It is not stuck in a physical sense, because the spell is obviously trying to move it and when your character climbs on it, the ball spins in place, however, you cannot attach the ball to the place where it needs to go to advance. Guess what? You just wasted 10 minutes of your life getting to that point. There is no way to reset the ball. You must just restart the level. This also happened to me on the level where you fight the giant spider at the end. There is a rain cloud near the beginning you must form. I didnt move the rain cloud high enough into the sky, and tried to move it over to the statue. It got stuck, so I had to restart the level, as you cannot advance without doing it properly. 
 
 My next big issue with this game is the save feature. Several times, I have finished levels, watched the outtro video, and turned it off, only to find that I have to replay the level the next time I come back. Why? Because not only must you watch the end of level cutscene to save it, but you must then either select to go back to the Leaky Cauldron or on to the next level. Then, and only then does the game save your progress. This is counter intuitive to me. When I turn off at the end of a level, I dont want to go to the next chapter OR go to the Leaky Cauldron. I just want to turn it off. But I get to go back and play again. 
 
 The last gripe I've got is the parts where you have to lift something, spin it, and send it flying again. There are two that come to mind. First, when Harry gets to Ron's house and you have to flip the gnomes (or elves, or whatever) and then again when you fight the giant spider. This is so confusing and counter intuitive the way this is done, you will die many times (on the spider, not the gnomes) before you luck into hitting it 3 times. It is just frustrating. 
 
 Dont get me wrong, the level layouts are great. The music is great, and the graphics are great. To me, when a game has so many problems, it frustrates you to play it, that means its time to put it down, dust off the old Lego Star Wars or something, and play a game that is not so problematic. 
 
 For a die hard fan of Harry Potter, it might be worth it. However, if you are just a die hard Lego _______ (insert movie franchise here) fan like me, I would pass on this one.
</REVIEW>