<STARS>1.0</STARS>
<TITLE>Gives new meaning to the word Awful...</TITLE>
<DATE>May 29, 2010</DATE>
<AUTHOR>DraconisAstra</AUTHOR>
<PRODUCT>True Blood: The Complete Second Season (HBO Series) (DVD)</PRODUCT>
<REVIEW>
True Blood Season 2
 
 Unless you truly enjoy the idea of wasting a moment of life, in a sedentary moment.  Do not buy this piece of crap.  If you're a Charlaine Harris fan, beware, both seasons bare little or no resemblance to the Book series.  They trash the Characters, and remove any semblance of an actual plot/story line.  
 I bought this and season one, sight unseen, which was a big mistake.  I recommend renting a copy or borrow one from a friend.  To determine if you actually like it, or buy a used copy as scratches can only enhance this trite idiocy.  All the stereotypes are here, in regard to southern white folk.  If you enjoy lame porn, you'll love this.  From Anna Pauquin's fake tits, to the town orgy, (oh yeah they went there) you'll really love this waste of an investment.  I bought it as a gift for a family member, they won't let me sell it off on e-bay. As it is a gift.
 The HBO people should have written their own lame storyline instead of trashing Charlaine Harris.  The script writers would make great senators or congressmen as they can't be bothered with actually reading either.  They certainly didn't read the book.  Queen Sophie is not only too tall, she is too old.  The characters do NOT match the book. No plot. A total absence of plot, yep totally gone.  Wall to wall brain farts. The best way to view this inane piece of work is through an alcohol induced trance.  Then it might actually look well done.  They took so many liberties with this, they should have created their own total mess, rather than hacking and butchering Charlaine Harris's work. 
 Vampires would certainly not waste as much blood as they did for this photo shoot. There are other glaring errors as well, but too many to list here.  Oh and HBO dudes, three letters, CGI, an absolutely wonderful video concept used for special effects, check it out. Shaking the camera while someone is trying to dance poorly is not a special effect.  And lacks imagination.  Not to mention screwing up a Pagan Myth to the Nth degree.  They did get off on the totally black eye effect.  Ohhhh, Ahhhh A Hannibal Lectre rerun. Oh my.
 Gratuitous sex and violence, yep, don't get angry.  After all it is only HBO, So having no expectations is a must for entertainment viewing.  Just use the mantra...it's only HBO, it's only HBO...
 Never in my viewing history have I seen something done so damn bad. Actually I lie, I just remembered Captain Apache (1971) both are about as well done.
 Imagine a clueless idiot, looking at a Jackson Pollock and thinking..."Hey, I can improve on this...", so he puts paintballs up his butt and farts them out on a canvas (actually I believe this being done), then he thinks this is soooo visionary.  It's about as imaginative and innovative as the nut who peed in a jar and put a cross in it.  Way to recycle bodily fluids dude.  And yep, another dummy bought it.
 So, we have ugly people having orgies, (I'm ugly so on the ugly front I know whereof I speak on ugly, never done the orgy thing so not so sure there but a definite yuck.), overdone redneck stereotypes, lame gags.  At least the first season did have a couple of decent laughs.  This series makes old porn movies, hey even new porn movies look positively genius.  As it was a gift I was obliged to sit and watch the whole insipid thing.  Of course given the other reviews here, I see some actually liked it. Ohhh....k. 
 Buy this used or on sale if at all, and watch before you buy.  Oh, and all other Sookie fans, get over it.  Nothing we can do, But stick with the Books.
  
 
</REVIEW>