<STARS>1.0</STARS>
<TITLE>Any idiot outside of NYC knows the liberals run the media</TITLE>
<DATE>August 17, 2003</DATE>
<AUTHOR>A Customer</AUTHOR>
<PRODUCT>What Liberal Media?: The Truth About Bias and the News (Hardcover)</PRODUCT>
<REVIEW>
Anybody who is familiar with Eric Alterman's conservative bashing and rantings from "The Nation" and "Altercation" on MSNBC.COM will be instantly familiar with this book. Eric's leanings are so far to the left that he makes Bill and Hillary Clinton look conservative. Most of Eric's writings are obviously filled with hate for George W. Bush. If the President said the sky was blue, Eric's column in "The Nation" or "Altercation" on MSNBC.com would say the sky was Red. Eric's rantings are so skewed to the left, that it's easy to see that his book is fired by his hatred for anything conservative and how he twists the facts to justify his point. Anybody who watches CNN, MSNBC, or any the major network broadcasts can obviously tell that the Liberals are in control of the networks and their broadcast agenda. Fox News is the only network that offers an honest and fair presentation of the news without the obvious liberal bias of the other media news shows. Also Eric forgets to tell us that Liberals are in control of most major newspapers in the United STates. It's obvious to anyone who reads a newspaper in the United States. Also MSNBC.com has a leftist bias. Eric Alterman's "Altercation" and Jill Nelson's op-ed pieces on MSNBC.com show just how liberal msnbc.com is in it's news reporting. Eric has no regard for the United States. He's typical of the liberals in Ann Coulter's book "Treason" that wish to destroy the United States from within. Eric has no regard for United States law unless it can be twisted to serve his politically correct and leftist anti-american agenda. Eric thinks he knows more about Constitutional law than the Supreme Court when he says that the Supreme Court was wrong and George W. Bush is the Commander in Theif. Eric forgets to tell us that the US Supreme Court stepped in to stop the Democratic controlled Florida Supreme Court from rewriting election law after the fact of the election to help Al Gore steal the election from George W. Bush. The Democratic controlled Florida Supreme court was guilty of changing the rules after the election has occured which violates Federal Election Law and the US Constitution. Eric also conveniently forgets to tell us that the President is determined by the electoral college and not the popular vote. It's in the constitution, yet he conveniently overlooks things that disagree with his leftist liberal and anti-american viewpoints. Eric Alterman's documentation standards practice the normal liberal method of cross polination. Cross pollination is when one liberal writes an article or book with no factual backing and then another liberal author references the book to back up his non-truthful claims. Very little of Eric's documenation for his book comes from the mainstream media or verifiable sources. Most of his documentation comes from unverifiable questionable sources in the liberal community. The footnotes and endnotes look real impressive if you don't question their validity or their sources. Most of his footnotes and endnotes come from nonverifable sources and have very little factual support behind them. Anybody who wasted their money on Eric's rantings deserves their money back.
</REVIEW>