<STARS>1.0</STARS>
<TITLE>Wretched and Painful</TITLE>
<DATE>September 3, 2007</DATE>
<AUTHOR>Laurie Breton "Author of Point of Departure, Mira Books, March 2007"</AUTHOR>
<PRODUCT>Wuthering Heights (Courage classics) (Hardcover)</PRODUCT>
<REVIEW>
I've never before written a negative Amazon reader review.  As an author, I know how much they can sting, and I try to limit myself to only reviewing books I've really enjoyed.  However, since the author is long dead, I doubt I can hurt her feelings.  And if by my words I can possibly prevent one other person from undergoing the suffering I've endured, I'll feel that my job here is done.
 
 I decided that at the age of 52, it was time I started reading some of the classics that I'd missed along the way.  I read PRIDE AND PREJUDICE first, and though I found Ms. Austen's writing to be tedious, the book was mildly entertaining.  I thought I'd try Emily Bronte's WUTHERING HEIGHTS next.  I'd always heard how romantic the story was, and no less than three people, upon seeing me with the book, told me, "You'll love it!  You'll absolutely love it!"
 
 Please tell me you're kidding.
 
 This book is wretched.  Painful to a degree I've never before experienced.  I've read books that put me to sleep, books I found impossibly dull, books I found too stupid for words.  But I have NEVER hated a book so much in my life.  The characters in their entirety don't possess a single redeeming value.  They are miserable, obnoxious, hateful excuses for human beings.  Even the DOGS are hateful.  Why should I care what happens to any of these awful people?  Why should I care if they've made themselves miserable through their own choices and then spend the rest of the book whining and complaining about how pathetic their lives are?  
 
 I hadn't realized just how much I loathed them until halfway through the book, when a major character died, and all I could think was, "THANK GOD!  THANK GOD!"
 
 And then, there's the dialect. Ah, the dialect!  I could tolerate it if it was used sparingly.  But when a certain character goes into a speech that lasts for half a page of small print, in a language that can only be described as Not Even Resembling English (yes, I know it's supposed to be Scottish), the result is unbearable pain.  Every time this character speaks (which is, thankfully, not often), I find myself puzzling over his words in an attempt to translate them into something that seems even mildly coherent.  Sometimes, it's possible to do this just by context.  At other times, I shake my head in bewilderment and disgust and simply move on to a different page.  Considering how slowly the story moves (is there a storyline?  a point to all this suffering?), I could probably skip entire chapters and not miss anything.
 
 I'd also like to know where the romance is.  Since everybody in this book seems to hate everybody else, with the notable exception of the uncouth monster, Heathcliff, and the spoiled-rotten, obnoxious Catherine, I can't fathom where that might lie.  Am I too dense to understand?  Or has the literary world been tricking us for 150 years, convincing the sheep of the world to follow along in praise of this "romantic" classic?
 
 I think I would rather have my fingernails pulled out forcefully, one at a time, than finish reading this book.  I'm halfway through, and life is short.  Am I really willing to spend that much more of my short time here on earth torturing myself just for the satisfaction of knowing I actually read the dreadful thing?  I think not.
 
 I also think my foray into the classics has ended right here.  I'm off to read some Robert Parker or Janet Evanovich.  Maybe even some Jackie Collins.  Anything to cleanse my palate of the terrible aftertaste of Heathcliff and Catherine.
 
 To each his own.  I know there are people who rave about this book, people who love it.  I'm glad somebody does.  Every book deserves to be loved by somebody.  But in this case, with this particular book, that somebody will have to be Somebody Else.  Because it certainly isn't me.
 
 
</REVIEW>