<STARS>1.0</STARS>
<TITLE>Much ado about nothing</TITLE>
<DATE>August 20, 2009</DATE>
<AUTHOR>E. Ambrose "Fellshot"</AUTHOR>
<PRODUCT>Twilight (Two-Disc Special Edition) (DVD)</PRODUCT>
<REVIEW>
The only people on earth who are allowed to sparkle are as follows...
 
 1) Drag Queens. A Drag Queen who does not emit sparkly fabulousness from the core of their being is a very sad thing and should be given a hug.
 
 2) David Bowie. Need I say more?
 
 Someone needs to explain the why's and wherefore's of this whole "sparkly vampire" business to me. I really don't understand it at all. Going out in daylight... OK, Dracula could do it if he were well fed, so why not? But sparkles?
 
 Anyway on to the meat of this review... (which will likely get thoroughly ignored as there seems to be so much hype over this flick)
 
 As far as I can tell, Twilight has no plot. At all. There aren't any conflicts until the last 20 minutes or so. There isn't any drama. This is a vampire movie with no conflict among the main characters, only teen angst and Bella and Edward mooning over each other. The dialog between Edward and Bella would be better if it were done with semaphore flags. Thank goodness I had rifftrax going during those awkward silences. The really sad part is that neither of them really seems to have any real reason to angst over their boring lives. Nothing's really keeping them apart. The few glimpses of indistinguishable backup high schoolers didn't have anyone telling Bella what a horrible person she was and no one went to torment "the new girl." 
 
 Anything that could be remotely called interesting would have been centered around Bella's sheriff dad and the "maulings" (read: vampire attacks) he's investigating. But the script instead goes to focus on Bella and Edward's wangsting.
 
 Anyone who thinks of Bella as a Mary Sue, I agree. This is perhaps the worst case of published marysueitis I have ever run across. Everyone likes her. She always gets her way. People drop everything to save her even if they have utterly no interest to do so. To make things worse, I found her to be a horrible character in general. There's one scene where one of the indistinguishable backup high schoolers is asking her out to the prom and she isn't paying the poor bit character the slightest whit of attention, preferring to gaze longingly at Edward in the distance. I'm sorry, but that's just rude and under most circumstances would probably make someone a bit miffed. I don't care if the poor guy is a bit character, I'd rather a small look at any of the their small dramas, because I could at least see that they had things going on in their lives from the tiny glimpses shown in the film.
 
 Speaking of small bit characters, the best one is some poor construction or engineering guy in a hard hat who finds himself hunted by the "OMG bad vampires." I'll give the redshirt credit, the shadowplay on the screen says that he gave them a fight and with an iota more depth, he would have fought them off. :) Go redshirt, go! I'm told that scene was not in the books. It makes me lose all desire to ever read them.
 
 As seems to be the trend for this movie, the villains aren't developed at all. They are clearly "OMG EVOL!!!1!!" because they act like, well, normal vampires and because they see Bella as an interesting snack. Were they given more depth or a motive at all, I probably would have started to root for them. As it was, I was bored silly.
 
 Aesthetically speaking, the film wasn't terrible, although I could have done with less cool toned lighting. Kirsten Stewart is a pale deadpan enough without the camera making it even more obvious. Also, the soundtrack has a rather pretty piano piece in the middle, supposedly composed by Robert Pattinson. I hope he manages to get himself fired from the sequels before his entire career goes down the drain. He played a good Cedric in Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire. 
 
 I wouldn't recommend Twilight to anyone. No amount of pretty camera work or tiny scene additions could save this movie from a script that would have been better used as toilet paper.
</REVIEW>