<STARS>1.0</STARS>
<TITLE>Broken, crashing, unfun 3rd installment in the Sims franchise</TITLE>
<DATE>June 6, 2009</DATE>
<AUTHOR>Nathan Beauchamp "Dakotad555"</AUTHOR>
<PRODUCT>The Sims 3 (DVD-ROM)</PRODUCT>
<REVIEW>
Wow EA really jacked this one up. Sims 2 was probably the single greatest wide interest game ever made. Appealing to everyone from 8 year old kids to baby-boomers, there was so much right about the game (ease of use, the fun of designing and building custom houses, the excellent expansion packs, the fantastic user made content, etc.) that perhaps it would be unfair to expect Sims 3 to be better than Sims 2. However, I AT LEAST expected it to be playable, and reasonably similar to Sims 2 in quality and fun. To sum up the rest of this review: It's nowhere close. It stinks. It's unplayable due to crashes (for me at least). It's a buggy, unfun, massive step backwards from Sims 2. 
 
 So what makes it so bad? 
 
 First off, the game crashes nearly constantly. It is not my computer. I own and successfully play dozens of computer games including the most graphics intensive on the market. (For the nerds, I have a i7 processor, 6gb ram, and crossfired ATI HD4870s). These problems are due to buggy code and terrible beta testing. This game should never have been released in this state of unfinished unplayability. 
 
 They have also removed many of the things I liked best about Sims two like the ability to construct a neighborhood from scratch and then play each family and watch your Sims interact, make friends and enemies, get married to each other, etc... You are now forced to play a single family at a time. Start a new family and your old ones become NPCs (non player controlled) characters. You can never go back once you start a new one. Why EA, why? This singlehandedly ruined the game for me. 
 
 Next is the drastic step backwards in ease and fun of playability. Why they decided to jack with the control mechanisms that every Sims 2 player is accustomed to, or slow time down to the point that I started falling asleep watching my Sim sleep with nothing to do in the game to keep me interested, and why EA released the game with a deplorably low number of home furnishings, I don't know. It's like a horrible nightmare where instead of games progressing and improving, they're regressing towards oblivion. The menus are just clumsy, hard to use, and so very much worse than Sims 2. If you loved the Sims 2 menus, you will HATE these. 
 
 The camera is also bad, in that sort of early generations Nintendo 64 way where you can never get it to do what you want it to do with regularity. It seems to have a mind of its own, and controlling it is as frustrating as the terrible controls. 
 
 Making attractive Sims is about as easy as sculpting the masterpiece David from play dough. All my Sims look fat, ugly, and just not what I had in mind. It is Uber hard to get a face the way you want it to look. It is even harder to make a nice looking Sim than the character creation system in Oblivion: The Elder Scrolls. If you like plump, slightly froggish looking Sims, you'll love it. 
 
 For interior design, rather than giving you a solid and complete set of home furnishings, you are instead offered very few selections, but the ability to make them patterned. Oh joy! What I really want is about 6 options of sofas, most of them ugly, but that I can apply plaid or camouflage skins to! That's so much better than having say 12 sofa varieties right? Not so much. This strikes me as either laziness, or that EA released the game intentionally sparse so they can sell even more add on packs later. Except they missed the entire point: the reason they sold so many add on packs for Sims 2 was that the core game was so good! 
 
 Overall this might be one of the worst failures in modern PC game history. Destroying a famed (even legendary) series of games like the Sims franchise by changing core elements and just doing a flat out poor job of quality control is abysmal. EA will need to heavily patch this game to make it worth playing, and by the time they do that, it might be too late. 
 
 My recommendation: sell your copy on an auction site. At least then you can get back some of your money and buy something else.
</REVIEW>