<STARS>1.0</STARS>
<TITLE>Malkinian Nonsense</TITLE>
<DATE>September 6, 2009</DATE>
<AUTHOR>Carl W. Goss</AUTHOR>
<PRODUCT>Culture of Corruption: Obama and His Team of Tax Cheats, Crooks, and Cronies (Hardcover)</PRODUCT>
<REVIEW>
 
 Michelle Malkin is a lady who makes her money by throwing dirt at politicians she considers left-wing.       That there is money to be made in this sort of endeavor, can be seen in the number of  right-wing screeds multiplying on bookshelves everywhere these days. 
 
 Malkin's  latest , Culture of Corruption: Obama and His Team of Tax Cheats, Crooks, and Cronies, joins another work, Unhinged: Exposing Liberals Gone Wild .   As you might guess, there's nothing surprising in her latest work, as anyone familiar with her blogs,  and cable news appearances,  probably already knows.   The general tone of the books is  Malkinian rage.  Reading her latest, one is reminded of the sort of thing one hears  at the various town-hall meetings as well as the  tea-bag gatherings.  All shouting and nonsensical   accusations.   
 
 But what of  her accusations?    Has Mr Obama surrounded himself with tax cheats, crooks and cronies?  He hasn't of course, but in Michelle Malkin's case the matter is somewhat more complicated.  Her  brain doesn't operate in a  manner that corresponds to the real world.  This is somewhat peculiar since at one time she was a respected reporter for  the Seattle Times.    But that was then, and this is now.  Her brain is operating on a different frequency these days.   One that clearly ignores reality. 
 
 Before getting into Malkin's main charges against the Obama administration, it's  interesting to note that Michelle Malkin is not just interested in the tax cheat-crook-crony angle, she has other objections.   For one thing, she says,  Obama's administration is made up of over-educated achievatrons.  Brainiacs.   People who are too smart.  People who aren't dumb.  (Worse yet, the children of members of the Obama administration send their kids of Georgetown Day School.   Georgetown Day School!  Where they will someday grow up to be valedictorians like their parents and join  still another leftist administration.)   This chills Malkin's blood.   Oh,  and don't forget the fact that according to the author,  the New York Times (that fish-wrap of a newspaper) owns Obama, or  perhaps it's vice-versa.  The author  doesn't really make it clear.
 
 The first chapter of the book smears Obama with all the charges listed above and more.  The remainder of the chapters, deals with a multitude of so-called scandals and vetting errors, the Obama administration has engaged in.  And it proceeds to  name, somewhat exhaustively a list of  individuals or institutions Michelle Malkin dislikes.  I mean she really dislikes them. 
 
 Let's look at just a few of Malkin's dislikes.  Bill Richardson starts the list.  Richardson  was involved in an investigation  dealing with transportation contracts when he was Governor of  New Mexico.  Nothing was ever proved and ultimately the charges against him were dropped. But that's enough for Malkin to brand him a crook.   He never did anything wrong, but he's a crook nevertheless.  Next, let's look at Attorney General Eric Holder.  Mr Holder is a crime-coddler.  How do we know this?  Well, Eric Holder actually gave some advice to President Clinton recommending clemency in the case of some terrorists and as well as Marc Rich.  Note that Holder had no independent power to grant clemency, only the president can do that.  Still  Eric Holder is a, well, he's not a tax cheat, he's not a crony, maybe he's a crook. Malkin doesn't make that clear either.  Again,  the fact that Eric Holder has never ever been accused of a crime or found guilty of a crime  doesn't matter in Michelle Malkin's world.    
 
 Malkin's  list of phony charges goes on and on.  Even Mrs Obama is not spared.  Her offense:  Dressing in expensive clothing.   Also, she comes out of Chicago politics and she's  actually made money in the private and semi-public sector.  Which according to Michelle Malkin makes her some kind of well , take your pick--tax cheat, crook, crony?   I don't know.     
 
 There's no need to go down the list of  individuals and institutions Michelle Malkin hates.  But here are a few more.   Acorn is a bunch of shake-down artists.  The Services Employees International Union is a bunch of thugs.   Obama and his administration engage in a complex web of incompetence,  nepotism, influence peddling and self dealing.  They don't of course, but Michelle Malkin says they do and that's that.  
 
 Malkin makes a big deal about "tax cheats"  What's her definition of a tax cheat, you might ask?  Well, it's anyone what overlooks some element of the tax form and forgets to file some income or another.  Doesn't matter if it's an honest mistake, in Michelle Malkin's world there are no such things as honest mistakes.  The members of the Obama administration are constitutionally unable to make mistakes. When they file an erroneous tax return; they are TAX CHEATS.   The author likes to spend a lot of time discussing the case  of  Treasury Secretary Timothy  Geithner.  Geithner erred to the tune of  thirty or fourty thousand dollars in a couple of his tax returns, over a period of several years.   During this period he  paid all his other taxes.  But because he erred, (no, according to Michelle Malkin he didn't err, he CHEATED) he's therefor branded a monstrous tax cheat.
 
 And on and on its goes for about 290 pages or so.  
 
 If you're looking for proof that  Obama administration is a hotbed of tax cheats, crooks and thugs, you won't find it here, what you will find are a lot of  absurd, baseless,   partisan accusations, typical of what you can also find on Fox News and right-wing talk radio if you listen long enough.    
 
 So, if you hate the current administration as much as Malkin does, you might like this book.   Personally I disliked  it.  I found it boring, hate-filled, irrational and totally  predictable.  
 
 In other words, totally Malkinian.  
 
 .    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
</REVIEW>