<STARS>1.0</STARS>
<TITLE>Don't Waste Your Money on iPod Touch</TITLE>
<DATE>November 15, 2009</DATE>
<AUTHOR>TV Viewer One Billion "TV Viewer One Billion"</AUTHOR>
<PRODUCT>Apple iPod touch 32 GB (3rd Generation) NEWEST MODEL (Electronics)</PRODUCT>
<REVIEW>
Don't waste your money on this convoluted and unfriendly piece of overpriced junk. Spend less and get much more.
 
 I should also mention Apple's crappy return policy for items bought in their store -- 14 days. 
 
 If you find out too slowly how lousy this item is, you are stuck with it. And don't give it as a gift at Xmas -- your recipients can't return it either. You have given them an expensive paperweight unless all the stars are in alignment for them, andthen they'll probably find it useless anyway.
 
 First, users need a very fast computer to make iPod touch work at all. It also needs a $50 a month home broadband connection (or a long, long visit to Starbucks) to download the absolutely required iTouch software before the object is more than a bad paperweight, and only if users meet all of those prerequisites, will they have the barest hope of seeing the choppy, vastly oversimplified and way, way too fast video instruction set, to get any music or apps. 
 
 Of course, getting apps or new music from Apple means having a wifi connection, so users are stuck at home or at Starbucks to do that.
 
 With all those stars in alignment, users will soon realize how taken they are. Every "feature" and app is easily duplicated on cheaper, better equipment with screens you can see and read, headsets that don't sound tinny or fall out of your ears, and good apps that you don't have to pay for over and over.
 
 Obviously, a $300 netbook does everything a thousand times better and does far more than the $300 iPod Touch, at the cost of what, 8 ounces to pack around? What exactly are you doing in the library with your iPod? Typing your term paper? I think not.
 
 The very fact you can't print, save or offload anything you write or find on the Internet makes for a huge, unexplored mystery, another Apple black hole in product design, that should keep you from spending your hard earned dollars, euros, whatever. The fact you can't buy for love or money a decent cover to keep the glass from scratching should clinch that decision.
 
 But particular demerits for the iTunes software, which took an hour to download and set up, because it is pathetically slow, and if you ever figure it out -- I figure you devote 15 or 20 hours to it and you may start to get the hang of it because doesn't work as it seems it should or as its limited instructions indicate -- you'll find it lame because cutting and pasting to folders ranges from cumbersome to impossible. 
 
 iPod also has vicious default settings that you won't know about or know to change in the set up in the absence of advance instructions -- defaults that can sync your music and pix out of existence before you can stop that from happening when charging up. Yet it somehow can't upload what you want to add unless you spend an hour (without the benefit of any instructions) trying to figure out the one and only permitted place for upload stuff to be to get it into iPod (cutting and pasting to iPod as with a thumbdrive is simply not permitted, nor is avoiding iTunes, so Apple can presumably keep track of what you are doing). 
 
 While the iPod may be able to hold thousands of photos, don't really try loading them more than 2 or 3 at a time, particularly if they are large size; the iTunes software simply can't handle processing them.
 
 Forget about giving it to a kid for Xmas. Besides the impossibly stupid return policy, the only porn filters are on buying at the iTunes store. The kid can see what he wants on the Internet with no restrictions whatever. Also, unless you take a lot of cumbersome measures to turn off your credit card info, your kid can spend you into the poorhouse, no way to stop that. That being said, iPod is pretty useless without hundreds of dollars worth of apps and music being loaded into it, so you do the math on giving it to a kid.
 
 Forget about a quick juice up. Apple admits it takes 4 hours to fully recharge from zero (though only an hour to get to 80%); don't hold your breath it is that fast, certainly not unless it is plugged into a fast computer with a 2.0 USB or the wall. It took me 1:45 to get it charged to 65%, and though unused, was at under 20% the next day.
 
 Apple also claims its batteries will hold an 80% charge after 400 cycles; this is EPA milage to me. Figure on spending $79 plus postage and tax to replace the batteries every year, plus spending a bunch of time trying to offload whatever you don't want to lose, and then waiting to get it back. BTW: mine did not hold a charge for the promised time right out of the box.
 
 The stupidity of having buttons do multiple things -- but only if you hold them for the exact right amount of time to the nanosecond so they don't do something else -- is not exactly what I call user friendliness. Forget about typing your messages or searches: typing accuracy is awful because the on-screen keys are tiny, tiny, tiny.
 
 If you really need music that much, first try using your home stereo, that's why you bought it for many hundreds of dollars. It will sound 10,000 times better and fuller, and you can share it with your friends and family. Even your car stereos will sound better than iPod by far. If you must have music while on subways or while jogging, use a regular Walkman bought in any drug store for $30 and regular music disks and regular headphones; it sounds 50 times better than 128 mp3's that cut off much of the sound not to mention the fall out of your earbuds, for 10% of the price. 
 
 At one time, we were all audiophiles who concentrated on the quality of the sound; mp3's are garbage compared to regular disks, which are garbage compared to vinyl, especially when the stereo itself has some decent components. Then listening is returns to being about music and not about electronic toys.
 
 Even so, a regular disk plays for 70 minutes; walk around with 3 disks and you are good for 3.5 hours, and quarter apiece batteries last for 10 hours, with no need to walk around with USB adapters and computers or $30 apiece AC socket adapters or any extra gadgets needed to charge it up (if you get 400 cycles before spending $79 plus to replace the iPod battery, that's still 20 cents a charge).
 
 But if you must have a lot of music, you can burn those same songs onto your own party disks as mp3's and get about 700 minutes worth on each one, using an mp3 Walkman that costs $60. Do you really need to have more than 12 hours of music in your hands at all times?
 
 Do you really have to watch TV or movies on a screen hardly bigger than your watch? Certainly not for $2 an episode from iTune stores, when current stuff reruns on network websites free, and older stuff is readily available on DVD, using a 10 inch cordless player that costs $80 that you can walk around with (and which will play those mp3's at least as well as iPod for no additional money)?
 
 Do you really need to have a $300 item and a $30 dock work and a $5 app for your alarm clock when you could get that for $20 at CVS? Do you really need an app tokeep a checkbook that comes with a paper register? Do you need a paid or Google app to keep track of your own anniversary?
 
 Do you really have to have access to some current books on a 4 inch screen for $10 a pop? What are those paperbacks still doing on your shelf?
 
 Don't waste your money on this overpriced, underfunctioning gadget. Save it for the music itself (go to a concert or two or three).
</REVIEW>