<STARS>3.0</STARS>
<TITLE>Not adequate</TITLE>
<DATE>December 14, 2007</DATE>
<AUTHOR>Noni</AUTHOR>
<PRODUCT>Power Rangers Operation Overdrive Mega Mission Helmet (Toy)</PRODUCT>
<REVIEW>
I bought this helmet for two reasons: disguise and durability. When you're out there on the streets performing missions, the last thing you want is for bad guys to recognize you. Or, worse, be able to knock you out with their lazers and baseball bats. Well this helmet, surprisingly, protects me from neither of those things.
 
 I put a lot of thought into this helmet before deciding upon it. As a vigilante crime fighter, I believed in the need for a disguise. That way, criminals couldn't find the real me in the phone book and hurt me in my house, or hurt my cat when I am not in my house (I'd probably be out fighting other criminals). I also believed that the "missions" that are part of this helmet would help me train and fight crime with more creativity. But there are no useful missions. It's all weird stuff about zords. I have no idea what zords are, but they are no use to me when I'm chasing down jewel thieves or wrestling drug dealers. Maybe someday I'll meet one of these zords and this training will come to some use, but I doubt it.
 
 Speaking of which, I have no idea what they meant for this helmet to protect me against. It's just too small, for one, and there's no way it could withstand the blow from a lead pipe or glass bottle. My enemies often use lead pipes and glass bottles in our battles, but thankfully I've never taken a hit directly to this mega helmet.
 
 For that matter, my peripheral vision is just ruined, so I'm often running down into dark alleys while flipping the helmet off and on just to make sure I don't trip over any hobos. This exposes my face for an instant, and an instant is all a criminal needs to recognize me or fire a sonic blast into my waiting face.
 
 And how do they expect me to fight crime with the shaded visor? Crime happens mostly at night. Night, as you may know, is darker than day. I don't need a shaded visor at night. What were the Power Ranger Engineers thinking when they designed this thing? Maybe over there in power ranger land they have very bright nighttimes, but not here. No sir.
 
 Then there are the sound effects. Look, guys, I'm guessing that over there in power ranger land criminals are easily shocked and awed when you come at them with all kinds of futuristic sounds. But over here, they just laugh at me. Maybe that's the point. I don't know, but at least I can kick them when they are laughing.
 
 Now here's something else that's concerning: On the box there's some small child in what appears to be fighting stance 16B. It also says that this mission helmet is good for 4 years and older. I assume they really mean "4+ years of street-level crime-fighting experience", not someone's literal age. Notably this "child" or "small man" on the cover is wearing no other protection and is comically trying to fight crime with only his bare hands (in fighting stance 16B, no less! That's only good for battling frogmen!). I'm an adult crime fighter and I wear shin guards at least, and also a very thick sweater if it's cold. Bare hands? Only if you've had bioenhancements, such as adamantium reinforcements! If that was true, then why would this child need the protection of a helmet? It just doesn't make sense at all.
 
 This is just misrepresentation. For that matter, why is this in the "toy" section? Fighting crime is a serious matter, for serious people. Even if you have no intention of using this helmet in your crime-fighting adventures, there's a danger of being seen as a crime-fighter by criminals simply for wearing the mission helmet.
</REVIEW>