<STARS>2.0</STARS>
<TITLE>An important apparel item gone entirely, horribly wrong</TITLE>
<DATE>February 10, 2008</DATE>
<AUTHOR>Noni</AUTHOR>
<PRODUCT>Hanes Classics Men's 6-Pack Cushion Crew Socks (Apparel)</PRODUCT>
<REVIEW>
I got these socks as a gift. As it was, the gift was unexpected and strange. See, I hadn't ordered anything from Amazon and yet, when I got home, there was an Amazon box on my porch, addressed to me, yet oddly missing the normal gibberish stickers that come from the UPS or FedEx. In it was 6 pairs of socks--these socks. "Well, I can use some socks," I thought. So I took the socks and placed them, still wrapped, into my sock drawer.
 
 The next day, I was dressing and opened my sock drawer and found these new socks neatly folded and lined-up, which was odd. I also swear that I heard a faint rainstick and some distant tribal drumming as the drawer slid open. I attempted to wear other socks, however, mostly because I didn't want to wear white socks with my black shoes. But as I put the other socks on, they were all were somehow too tiny to fit onto my feet. Five times in a row this happened. I thought that I had shrunk everything in the dryer, so I gave up and put on these new Hanes cushioned crews.
 
 Immediately, I felt a sense of joy. It was strange, like the first time you kiss someone, or how you felt as a kid when waking up on Christmas morning. I kept wondering if it was the socks that made me feel that way, or if I was just somehow subconsciously triggered to reminisce.
 
 That day, in it's entirety, was wonderful. At least 50 people I had never spoken to before somehow knew my name. These were people on the street, even. At the coffee shop, the girl who normally had the demeanor of a disgruntled, middle-age cafeteria worker actually gave me free coffee and tried to flirt with me. Not just to flirt, but a stumbly sort of flirting that only comes about when desire has made you lose your grasp of language structure.
 
 At the university, I was excused from an upcoming midterm for a reason I don't even remember. I think it involved being "an attentive enough listener at lectures." At work, I was promoted to full-time salaried work with a bonus. However, in the parking lot, I thought my luck had turned on me as I discovered my car had been totaled by some rich guy in a Jaguar. But, no! The guy throws me into a taxi and has me pick out a new car for myself on the nearby auto row. So within 30 minutes I was the proud owner of a new Mercedes.
 
 These socks were great that first day, and I went to bed a happy but confused man. But very soon my luck had changed. The second day I again went to put on some socks and I immediately reached for a pair of these Hanes Classics. However, they ripped in the toes and heels. Five times in a row this happened until I was plumb out of new socks.
 
 In short, Hanes makes a fantastically magical sock, but I'm rating this sock a 2 because the quality is pretty lousy. Also, my one day of greatness made me realize how horrible my life really is when I don't have magic socks to wear.
</REVIEW>