<STARS>1.0</STARS>
<TITLE>IPod and ITunes are buggy, proprietary junk</TITLE>
<DATE>December 29, 2009</DATE>
<AUTHOR>Michael C. Lee Jr. "Mike"</AUTHOR>
<PRODUCT>Apple iPod touch 32 GB (3rd Generation) NEWEST MODEL (Electronics)</PRODUCT>
<REVIEW>
I bought this for my 9 year old daughter for Christmas. I was very excited for her. I installed itunes on her computer (REQUIRED) and loaded it full of music, videos and apps. ITunes crashes a LOT and is VERY SLOW! Got it all loaded, she opened it, then none of the apps work! You click on an app and it opens up for about .2 of a second and closes immediately. The apps that come with it work, just none of the added ones. Well, Apple support was closed for 3 days until Monday! On the Apple site their wonderful support has you give them a date/time to call you back rather than just have help available. I went through like 5 horrible set up screens on the Apple web site to get them to call me back Monday to help with their broken Christmas present and WHOLA, the VERY LAST PAGE of the support site gave me some error message about the Apple web servers. Amazing. I think they need to re-do their ads that say Microsoft has buggy products. I am very computer savy and googled around and found the web REPLETE with similar problems. No solution worked except completely reformatting the ipod, creating a new account, and not letting itunes copy the apps for me. Then it worked. When it worked, I loved it. Therein is the problem. A 5 star product is a 1 star product if it is only good as a paperweight. Well, later that same day, we were adding apps and then the new ones started with the opening then immediately closing thing again. Reformatting and reloading everything twice a day is not a viable solution. I returned it.
 
 That is not all of my fun with Apple. I did like the product WHEN IT WORKED so I went to the Apple store at the Mall of Georgia near Atlanta, GA. I told one of the 'geniuses' my problem to which she said she had a similar problem. She then continued to be unbelievably rude with comments like 'stop interrupting me' when I was just trying to clarify what was happening with my product when she stated something different than what I was saying along with 'what do you want me to do?' along with a 'Want me to get the manager?'. I was amazingly calm considering the level of bad attitude. I then told her that all I wanted a warm and fuzzy. I just wanted to know that I got a bad ipod and that it is a rare condition because I wanted to buy one that day. She did not do that. I then thanked her for helping me make up my mind and went out and got a Zune HD and love it. It works great. I already own an older IPod 30gb and a macbook 13''. They work well but are NOT bug free and as simple as advertised. I will not, however, be buying a single Apple product ever again thanks to the unbelievable rudeness of the 'genius' and the problems I had with this Christmas present on Christmas day for my daughter.
 
 Also, the IPod is married to ITunes and the ITunes store. Most good media players give you access to the device for more of a tinkerer who wants to control the folder formats, what goes where, etc. Not a bunch of locked down, buggy, slow, DRM LADEN, confusing interfaces. The IPod makes you use ITunes. That DRM garbage and Apple only tie in junk proves it is Apple, not the 'evil' Microsoft that is all about the $$$. Hey, I'm a capitalist, but don't be so greedy and monopolistic about it. Anyway, I excecised my right as a Capitalist to go by a competing, easier, better product...the Zune.  And Zune has apps coming. Oh, and I have the G1 Android phone and love it. It has an app store, that went from nothing to a zillion apps in no time also. I bet the Zune one will soon also.
</REVIEW>