<STARS>1.0</STARS>
<TITLE>A very sad attempt</TITLE>
<DATE>April 12, 2010</DATE>
<AUTHOR>Kaushik Lodh</AUTHOR>
<PRODUCT>Cop Out (DVD)</PRODUCT>
<REVIEW>
Ok, so this is a cop movie, 2 cops, serious white guy (Bruce Willis) and stereotypical bumbling black guy. So lets consider the primary aspects of the movie:
 
 1) Story line: An extremely weak plot. A snitch tells 2 bumbling cops about a narcotics drop off. The cops have a stake out (with just 2 guys), it goes foul, snitch dies. In comes a drug baron, a very very cheesy mexican dude with equally cheesy Mexican actors as side kicks. I live in LA, and I know mexican tough guys, these guys are the kinder garden variety. Seems the drug baron has lost a car. 
 
 White guy (Bruce) has daughter's wedding, needs 50g's, decides to sell a rare baseball card. Card gets stolen by Stifler (from American pie... of Stifler's Mom fame). Stifler is in to parcour (Street jumping) and steals the baseball card, which he sells to the drug lord. Then comes the worst ever street jumping clip ever filmed. I mean if I had a retarded little brother, who had polio... probably he could jump better. 
 
 Drug lord strikes a deal with the cops, get the car... get the baseball card back. Hmmm.. didnt know any NY cops who were soft enough to let a street hood call the shots. Anyway, these 2 evidently allow it. They trace the car.. By interrogating a 11 year old car jacker! JESUS! Car has been sold to a russian attorney. Honestly... NY lawyers make enough money to buy new cars (especially if living in a mansion with a swimming pool and detached garage as shown here), and any lawyer knows better than to deal in stolen goods and have his license revoked. /facepalm!
 
 The cops get the car, and surprisingly, there is a girl in the trunk, thumping away. Evidently she has been there 2 days. And no one noticed it, with all the dealings with the car...while stealing the car, changing the number plates (as you would expect car thieves to do) or while the car was being sold to the lawyer.
 
 Well, the cops find the girl. She is the ex-mistress of a Mexican drug baron, who our NY drug baron killed. She has a flash drive with the mexican baron's bank information. Passwords and cash amounts. (How convinient).
 She gives the 2 cops the slip, and leaves the flash drive (her only bargaining chip) behind. She is eventually caught by the NY drug baron.
 
 Insane twist : Stifler is being held for felony robbery, assault with a deadly weapon, Assault on a police officer. I believe that the bail for that would be around a couple of million dollars, but ... guess what... Bruce willis, who doesnt have 50 g's for his kid's wedding, has dough enough to bail him. BIG hole in the plot!
 Plan: stifler is going to go in to the NY drug baron's house (which everyone seems to know where it is...) and its a condemned house (by the looks of it). Stifler falls off the roof and dies (Lol). the cops are in a shoot out. The bad guys die. Black dude finds out from nanny cam his wife isnt cheating on him. Bruce's wife's 2nd husband pays for the wedding. The flash drive is forgotten.
 
 You are left with a wtf feeling.
 
 Take "Shutter Island" for example. It had one story to tell, which it did solidly. Genius, Scorsese style. Take "Cop Out", mindless plot made up by a writer who is obviously on some serious drugs. 
 
 There is NOTHING which ties up. The story line is absolutely nonsense.
 There is some lame attempts at slapstick humor, but it is horribly presented.
 
 Acting: Bruce willis is a respected actor. He must have been seriously compromised (wine or women?) to take up this pathetic role. His team up with the black dude is really really ill matched. There is absolutely no on screen chemistry. 
 
 There is a scene, where the black guy literally pouts and says "PUH LEEEEAAASSE... look at the nanny cam I put in my wife's bedroom to find out if she is cheating on me. I am too gutless to look, please look and tell me what happens." How lame is that.... 
 
 The acting makes you disrespect Bruce Willis. Everyone else is pretty bad as well. Well, you get it, with such a plot, and such direction, no one can really look good.
 
 
 It is an utter waste of time. It is so much fail.. let alone paying to see it on a theatre, or paying to rent the DVD or pay per view.. Dont even download it for free. LAWL. Its total fail!
 
 Kaz, LA April 2010.
</REVIEW>