<STARS>5.0</STARS>
<TITLE>The greatest mistake of my life.</TITLE>
<DATE>May 22, 2009</DATE>
<AUTHOR>Tim H.</AUTHOR>
<PRODUCT>Howling Wolf T-Shirt by The Mountain 100% Cotton Short Sleeve fitsl Kids, Teens & Adults (Apparel)</PRODUCT>
<REVIEW>
While I understand the excitement over the Three Wolf Moon T-Shirt, Available in Various Sizes , I must politely disagree with the furor over that particular garment.  At first I agreed with the hundreds of reviews of that other shirt. It arrived in the mail, I tried it on, and my cat fought me to the death, small woodland animals prostrated themselves at my feet and offered themselves as sacrifices, and human women ovulated at the sight of me.  I was an instant fan, and I knew I would never need another wolf shirt made by The Mountain company.
 
 Then I decided I wanted a t-shirt celebrating the life and times of the musician Howlin' Wolf.  My dial-up internet connection was taking too long to load the pictures for this shirt so I ordered it based on the name alone.  When it arrived I was at first furious.  How dare The Mountain manufacture a shirt with a title that so closely resembles the name of such a legendary bluesman?  Their sheer audacity had me pondering a very sternly-worded letter to their Wolf Shirt Department, let me tell you.  But after I broke down and tried on this Howling Wolf T-shirt, all thoughts of letter-writing left me, and I never again wore the Three Wolf Moon T-shirt.  It now lies at the bottom of a mountain of detritus in my closet, never to see the light of day (or moonlight of night) again.
 
 The Howling Wolf T-shirt by The Mountain (100% Cotton Short Sleeve, fits Kids, Teens & Adults) is by far the superior t-shirt.  It is, however, not for the weak or for the superficial fan of The Mountain's wolf t-shirt line.  While the Three Wolf Moon shirt gives the viewer and wearer a sense of community, Howling Wolf T-shirt is for the true loner.  It's for the outcasts in our society, it's for every man or woman who ever looked into that vast night sky and realized nobody else was by their side to howl along with them.  The moment I donned this shirt, an overwhelming sense of angst gripped me like an existential vise.  I tore the sleeves off my jean jacket without thinking and I found myself outside the house wearing a red bandana.  My wife and children were nowhere to be found, as each time I wear this t-shirt I am transported to a world where I have no one to rely on but myself.
 
 I drove around for hours listening to the Smiths and the Cure, sobbing uncontrollably, but each tear drop was instantly absorbed by the shirt surrounding my torso and they seemed to make the image shine that much brighter.  I found myself in mountainous terrain with a few trees, very much like the biome depicted on the shirt itself.  Was it alpine?  Taiga?  I will never know for sure, but once I pulled over and stepped out of the car all thoughts of terrain descriptors vanished and I was drawn to a steep cliff overlooking a valley.  The moon shone high above, full and round, and I was suddenly aware that a change had taken me over.  I was faster, stronger, and my senses were more acute.  Don't believe the hype surrounding the Three Wolf Moon T-shirt when people claim it transformed them into wolves themselves.  I wore it and that never happened.  The Howling Wolf T-shirt, on the other hand, transmogrified me into canis lupus and I could no more stop myself from howling at that moon than I could grip a pencil (as a wolf I no longer had opposable thumbs).  
 
 Alone, I thought vaguely.  I am alone.  This world holds nothing and no one for me.  I shall forevermore walk the night on my own, killing to live.  Then, as if in answer, the moon vanished behind a cloud.  A soft voice spoke behind me.  "You shall never walk alone."  It all seems a bit like a Green Day lyric when I describe it here, but it was profound beyond mere words.  Standing before me was a woman cloaked in translucent white garments that revealed the feminine curves of her ample-bosomed frame.  She looked at me with benevolence and love, and suddenly I was aware that my moroseness and ennui had left me at last.  My soul flew free into the night above that valley.  We came together in an embrace for the ages, as the stars made cascading patterns, singing sweetly in voices no man will ever hear unless he wears this particular shirt, and even then perhaps only in size L.  Finally, in a moment of cosmic kismet, the moon goddess Luna whispered in my ear a lyric from Howlin' Wolf himself:  "You know I called you darling to come back to the Wolf / But I'll be around, yes I'll be around / To see what you're puttin' down".  
 
 With that, the light from both moon and stars winked out, and I slipped from consciousness.  I found myself lying on that rocky outcropping the next morning.  The Howling Wolf T-shirt was lying next to me along with the rest of my clothes.  Carefully avoiding any skin-to-skin contact with the garment, I carried it to the car and put it in the back seat.  Later, back at my house, I placed it safely in a Rubbermaid container (also available here on Amazon) and admired my taut frame in the mirror.  Gone were the sagging lines of middle age, the liver spots, and the fat deposits from years of abuse by eating Fudgicles and raw cookie dough when the wife was visiting her aunt in Philly.  Now I was muscular and lean, not unlike Iggy Pop if he were younger and had never ridden the white horse.  From that day on I became a better lover to my wife and a better father to my children.  I ran for City Selectman and won in a landslide despite that old conviction in the 1970s for public urination on an officer of the law.  I carry within me the spirit of the Lone Wolf, who understands that he does not need two other wolves at his side howling to the moon, but merely CHOOSES to be around others.  Anytime I need reminding of this inner strength, I don the Howling Wolf T-shirt by The Mountain and I am once again swept away on a river of sobbing, howling, the song "Alone Again (Naturally)" by Gilbert O'Sullivan, and finally...redemption.  The Three Wolf Moon shirt may appeal to the baser instincts of a boy's character, but once you're ready to become a Man, it's time to step up and try the Howling Wolf T-shirt 100% Cotton Short Sleeve.
 
 Also, every time I wear it I find money on the ground.
</REVIEW>
