<STARS>1.0</STARS>
<TITLE>Fun At First....But Due to Bad Gimmick....Gets Old Fast</TITLE>
<DATE>November 12, 2009</DATE>
<AUTHOR>Siklootd</AUTHOR>
<PRODUCT>Wii (Video Game)</PRODUCT>
<REVIEW>
The Nintendo Wii has been stated by many to have revolutionized gaming as we know it.  A drastically deep claim to make in such a powerful entertainment medium that revolves around technology.  A claim, that I believed as well.  The idea of playing games with motions is intriguing, enticing, and exciting, something that many use as a decision maker when it comes time to purchase a console.  I was one of the many people who waited in line all night November 18, 2006 for the Nintendo Wii.  
 
 After taking it home that first morning, I was dying from anticipation of playing the newest console made by Nintendo.  I opened the console, I liked what I saw.  The Wii Menu is unique, and is a great way to navigate the console.  The menu displays the contents of the Wii's internal hard-drive, displaying items such as downloaded games, and new channels that may have been purchased.  Navigating the menu requires the usage of the sensor bar and pointing the Wii Remote at the screen to choose the desired channel.  
 
 The games feel unique at first, requiring motions to control on screen avatars within the games.  However, as time goes by, the feeling of revolution is replaced with tedium.  After a few hours of gameplay it becomes obvious that button presses of the past have simply been replaced with simple gestures that do not represent the actual on screen action.  For example: in past games in order to attack you may have been required to press "A" but the Wii replaces this with a simple "shake" of the controller.  It doesn't even matter as to which direction the controller is shaken in either, seeing as the gesture will not match the onscreen motions.  The majority of the games on the Wii really only use five different gestures, simply recycled over and over again.  These gestures include: shake controller left, shake controller right, shake controller up, shake controller down, and thrust controller forward.  These gestures do not actually allow the gamer to feel immersed in the game, since these gestures are no different than button pressing.  The added drawback of these motions is the inaccuracy of the detection of them as well.  
 
 Where I started to lose faith in the Wii was after picking up some hardcore games for the console.  I began by purchasing Resident Evil 4, Okami, Madworld, No More Heroes, Mortal Kombat Armageddon, Dragonball Z Tenkaichi 2 and 3, Twilight Princess, and more.  I started to realize that with these games, precision is an absolute must.  However, the Wii remote's motion controller actually takes away from the precision due to the poor detection skills of the controller.  This results in lag, delayed moves, incorrect moves, and more.  In several of these games, I found myself repeating missions and levels simply due to the fact that the Wiimote would make my on screen character perform the wrong moves.  For example:  in Twilight Princess, the shield bash is done by pushing the nunchuk forward, however, sometimes this registered as the nunchuk being moved to the side which corresponds with a spin attack.  Similar scenarios began to play out with all of the Wii games I purchased.  Every game began to get more frustrating and I began to play my Playstation 3 more and more.  Finally, I came to a conclusion, traditional controls just work better for playing games, period.  
 
 The graphics of the Wii are fine, in my opinion, despite the lack of HD.  Graphics alone do not make a game fun, and that is why I continue to play PSOne and Nintendo 64 games to this day.  However, the unresponsive controller gestures of the Wii are enough to turn me away from the console.  I'm still hoping that Microsoft and Sony don't try to follow Nintendo too much with motion control gameplay seeing as it actually makes games more difficult and frustrating to play.  If you're a gamer looking for a console with great games, is a lot of fun, and can be played for hours on end with full precision and control, don't go with the Wii.  You can't go wrong with either a PS3 or a 360 though, both offer a wide variety of games in every genre and both respond the way you tell them to.  The Wii may have enough perks to attract you if you stick to games such as Super Smash Bros Brawl, Guilty Gear and other games that allow the option of playing with either a classic remote or a GameCube controller, but not enough games give players this option.  Also, if you're not looking for games that contain in depth controls, than perhaps you will do just fine with the Wii.  The Wii has its ups, and its downs, but for me personally, it has been a disappointment.
</REVIEW>