<STARS>1.0</STARS>
<TITLE>NOT LITERATURE, BUT A GREAT BUSINESS MODEL</TITLE>
<DATE>May 2, 2010</DATE>
<AUTHOR>Henry W. Slangal "hankerooney"</AUTHOR>
<PRODUCT>The Da Vinci Code (Mass Market Paperback)</PRODUCT>
<REVIEW>
I hear this novel has sold over 6,000,000 copies.  Mr. Brown is no doubt pleased, and loses little sleep over the possibility that in six years no one will be reading his blockbuster.  He has his villa on the Riviera, if he wants it.
 
 I do not wish to disparage his talents.  Suppose you wish to write such a novel and have in mind several characters.  Character A (a handsome American, by the way)is perhaps the world's leading authority on, say, symbolism.  Character B (beautiful by the way) is a brilliant young French cryptologist.  Character C (incredibly wealthy and charming)is an eccentric old English peer who happens to have spent his entire life studying early Christian exotica, including secret societies and the legend of the Holy Grail.
 
 Fate throws them together one dark and stormy night in Europe.  The action is precipitated by character D, a hulking religious albino homicidal maniac who wears a monk's robe and favors barbed wire garters.  He is a (fictitious) postulant in service to Opus Dei (God's work), an arch-conservative semi-secret Catholic sect that is obviously up to no good --desiring, as they do, to crank the wayward church of today back a thousand years or so to when Christians really knew how to suffer. D is not the villain, by the way, and his passion for slaying is excused by the fact that when a kid, other kids teased him about his size and lack of pigmentation.
 
 Okay, now you have four highly original characters, and an opening sequence in which, it turns out, several perfectly nice and distinguished old fellows are murdered by the monk.  
 
 Where do you go now?  Well, in this enlightened age, you know how readers love books that moon religion, and especially if the moon-ee is the once venerable but now scandalized Catholic Church.  But you can't just make stuff up, at least not all of it, so you have to do some hard work called research, or hire someone to do it.  What you dig up does not have to be entirely true, as long as it is interesting, especially if it is a little titillating to one's baser instincts.
 
 History being what it is, and humans being who we are, you will discover a number of unsavory truths mixed in with a larger number of equally unsavory untruths, rumors, suspicions, legends, and valid questions.  As a creative person endowed with artistic license, you may crayola some of these tidbits to make them even more delicious, if not salacious. This is called "mining the vein of history."
 
 If you are diligent and blessed with a certain intelligence, you will, out of this stew of possibles, come up with a substory that is so gripping, so bizarre, so full of lust and corruption that few will not want to hear of it.  More work is ahead, for your true genius is revealed in how you plot the story.  When is "fact" X, hinted at or revealed, and by whom or what?  Character A knows much, but not enough; enter character B, to complement A's knowledge.  Even the two are still insufficient (although they are falling in love).  Alas, even the vast erudition of C leaves us wanting.  Read on!  Read on! 
 
 Maybe, dear reader, after I don't know how many hundreds of pages, you get tired of the author's continuously advancing carrot and you flip to the final pages to find the final answer.  Then you might wish to turn to another novel about real people in a real world, such as A month in the Country, by J. L. Carr
 
 
</REVIEW>