<STARS>1.0</STARS>
<TITLE>Release the NoDoz!</TITLE>
<DATE>April 4, 2010</DATE>
<AUTHOR>DarthRad</AUTHOR>
<PRODUCT>Clash of the Titans (Blu-ray/DVD Combo + Digital Copy) (Blu-ray)</PRODUCT>
<REVIEW>
Zzzzz... yet another movie with terrific CGI, a garbled plot, no human emotional connection, and a mixed bag of awful to above average acting.  I actually started to fall asleep at various points in this movie....
 
 One's senses are not quite as assaulted as with "Transformers - Revenge of the Fallen", but this movie falls into that same class of an action movie hyped mainly for its special effects and yet unable to hold our attention just on that basis.  Yes, there was a time, back in the days of "Jurassic Park", when merely seeing this awe-inspiring CGI onscreen was enough to keep a moviegoer awake, but no more.  Nowadays, terrific CGI is so ubiquitous that it is easy to be blase about seeing it onscreen;  the CGI nowadays is just part of a movie's landscape, like the potted plants and furniture.  
 
 Enough, my eyes and ears tell me, so what if the Kraken/Medusa/Giant Crab/Monster Du Jour is attacking - do I care enough about the characters and plot that it means anything?  Without that essential emotional connection to the story and characters, watching massive quantities of CGI is just as sleep inducing as watching potted plants grow. 
 
 Sam Worthington is in this movie, which might be enough to keep his fans awake, but I am baffled at how he has managed to become a mega-movie star in such a short time.  A published critical review of his performance said that his CGI "Avatar" character had more facial expressions than he did in this movie.  Another said that his acting was so wooden that it belonged in the lumbar section of the Home Depot.  
 
 Mads Mikkelsen was one of the few actors to squeeze a capable performance out of this movie, as Draco, the co-leader of Perseus's merry band of monster-chow.  Kudos to him for managing to retain his dignity, much more than Liam Neeson or Ralph Fiennes were able to do in this movie.  The presence of these two stars bring to mind the latter days of Sir Laurence Olivier, who was willing to appear in almost any bad movie as long as they paid his fee.  I would love to know just what was going through Liam Neeson's mind as he was walking around in that silly mirror-polished suit of armor and scraggly beard.  Come to think of it, he did once do both in "Excaliber"... so maybe that's what he was thinking.  Ralph Fiennes - has playing one of the most effective evil Nazis of all time onscreen ("Schindler's List") made him a lock for all the blockbuster Evil Bad Guy roles in Hollywood?  Take the money and run, is what seems to be going on here. 
 
 One interesting visual effect of this movie was that all of the males were tanned a dark shade of bronze, whereas the two main female characters were left strikingly pale, which made me think that in the time of the Ancient Greeks,  men and women were of different races.  Or, perhaps the women were just locked up indoors all the time.  Both women were cute and did a decent job in their roles, but the shag rug carpet  which Io wore in her last scenes made me want to burst out laughing.  Poor Gemma Arterton.
 
 Yes, the costume designer for this movie was beyond horrible.  I could go on and on about the horrible costuming.  
 
 Even worse, the Continuity Director must have been on drugs during the entire shoot.  Or maybe it was just really bad film editing, combined with a fractured screenplay.  Did anybody else notice the beautiful shot of sunlight breaking through the clouds....... during the total eclipse?  Right, it does get awfully dark during a total eclipse, and that entire Kraken vs. Argos scene (with Alexa Davalos getting strung up as Kraken food) should have been in the dark, or twilight.  
 
 But then, almost nothing made sense in this movie.  The initial entry into the palace of the King of Argos - was it a festival or something?  What was with all the music and dancing girls?  Perseus and his group journey into Hades - Charon is mentioned, but barely seen - not enough left in the budget for a better Charon?  Then, having crossed the River Styx, they are not in Hades, but in Medusa's lair.  WTF?  And when Perseus comes out, he is seen exiting a cave.  What happened to recrossing the River Styx?  
 
 More questions - Why is Pegasus black?  What happened to Calibos's hand? (an interesting teaser, watching his hand come back to life... and then nothing).  Why is it mentioned that Medusa can only turn men to stone, not women, and then the Kraken gets turned to stone when it sees the Medusa head? Does the Medusa head turn fish and crustaceans to stone also?  How about insects?  And oh dear me, WHY IS MEDUSA WEARING A BLACK BRA?  Imagine putting a bra on your pet snake, yes that's what that looked like.
 
 And of course, one cannot go through the list of what's totally bad in this movie without mentioning the obligatory Hollywood caricature of the Extremist Religionist, who is stuck into this movie like a sore thumb.  He appears as this skinny bare chested guy with mascara eyeliner shrieking in a British accent about offering up Andromeda as a sacrifice.  In between trying to stay awake, I could only groan and sigh "Not again" at the grating appearance of this character....
 
 There were lots of things like that which made me want to close my eyes during this movie...
 
 
</REVIEW>