<STARS>1.0</STARS>
<TITLE>If  you thought the TV show Friends was FABULOUS, you'll love this....</TITLE>
<DATE>September 13, 2005</DATE>
<AUTHOR>Liza</AUTHOR>
<PRODUCT>Can You Keep a Secret? (Hardcover)</PRODUCT>
<REVIEW>
But if not, you'll be bored silly by this book. I know I was. I've rarely stopped reading a book before reaching the end, but I was sooo close with this one. The only reason I kept reading was because of all the 5 star ratings I saw here. I thought, surely, it must get better. It has to! I was waiting for all the 'laugh out loud' moments that everyone was talking about but they never appeared. My advice: if you're not laughing away midway through, abandon ship! It doesn't get any better. In fact it gets worse.
 
 To be honest, I tend to read more serious stuff. I've read a couple really great 'chick lit' books but this one really falls short.  I picked it up at the library  in search of a quick light read. I didn't find it such a quick read because I just couldn't get into it. And yes, it's light but really dull and well, for me anyway, boring.
 
 Where do I start with what I disliked about this book? The characters are flimsy caricatures -- completely unbelievable and they're all so irritatingly thick. The dialogue never really goes anywhere. Emma has this completely irritating habit of starting every other sentence with "er, uh, um...." Whatever laughs there are are so belaboured that they're just not funny anymore. For instance, the big scene where Jack spews all of Emma's secrets & her colleagues respond in shock to every single darned one goes on for some 4 pages ('You're really a size  6?' 'You have a  Barbie bedspread?' 'You hate crochet?' bla bla bla...) Boy, funny stuff. You already know what all of them are anyway, so there's just no sense of suspense or tension. And in general, you know what's going to happen ages before it does, so as I was reading I kept thinking 'oh come on, get on with it already!' I found the writing style just plain flat and uninspiring. There's just no depth of any kind. Worst of all, the plot line is so contrived.  I completely get why Emma would think she was 'madly' in love with Jack after just a couple dates but what's Jack's deal? Are we really supposed to believe that some multi-millionaire CEO would fall in love with this ditzy, dim junior employee who is easily what, 20 years his junior? Riiiight. And Jack's 'big secret'? Now THAT made me laugh because it was just soo silly! And the sappy ending? Yuck!
 
 Sorry, I just could not recommend this one unless you were shipwrecked on an deserted island with absolutely positively nothing else to do and even then, maybe not. I truly am baffled by all the rave reviews here. It reads more like a teen novel than something for adults --  very, very, very sophmoric. Anyway, you get the point. I really didn't like it. 
 
 I would, however, like to recommend 2 other chick lit books that surpass this one by miles. The Other Side of the  Story by Marian Keyes is an incredibly witty, smart, sparkly, genuine laugh-out-loud book. I couldn't  put it down and although it's long, I was disappointed when I was done because I wanted more. Girl's Poker Night by Jill Davis is another very funny, very bright book. Both of these books are everything I think this one hoped to be.
</REVIEW>