<STARS>1.0</STARS>
<TITLE>Dawn broke alright, beyond repair</TITLE>
<DATE>August 4, 2008</DATE>
<AUTHOR>SnowWhiteLives</AUTHOR>
<PRODUCT>Breaking Dawn (The Twilight Saga, Book 4) (Hardcover)</PRODUCT>
<REVIEW>
First of all, where was the Edward and Bella romance that we got in Twilight? I couldn't find it. His character was almost nonexistent. The wedding was too rushed, the honeymoon... not a single intimate conversation. Not really one. About what it was like to be married, how they finally felt about everything that had gotten them to this point, what they hoped for the future, nothing. I felt cheated.
 
 Then the pregnancy... just yuck, how Bella lit up every time Jake came over, meanwhile, Edward's going out of his mind and she seems to just not address that. Did it not occur to her how it would make Edward feel when she did stuff like that with Jake? Her constant disregard for his feelings never ceased to amaze me. And we're supposed to like her for this?
 
 I have to admit, I loved the delivery scene, with Edward having to deliver the baby and her just spewing blood from everywhere. Too bad Jake was there, but it was impossible to shake him, thanks Steph. If they ever make a movie of this one, I want to see that scene.
 
 I must say, I have read better transformation scenes in fanfiction. That was weak, but, I like Bella as a vamp much better than as a human. It really helped that she finally cut Jake loose and realized she belonged to Edward. Finally! It took her becoming a vamp for that to happen? How stupid was she as a human?
 
 Then the imprinting. Just weird and creepy. Almost incestuous; just a few days earlier, Jacob is having fantasies about having sex with Bella. Then suddenly, he wants her daughter. Creeped me out big time. Why couldn't he imprint on Angela or even Tanya?
 
 Oh, I know why, because it wouldn't have fit into the whole bizarro ending she had planned, with the wolves intimidating the Volturi. I did like Seth though; if anyone had to imprint on the kid, I wished it was him. I also thought Sam would die so Jake would have to become Alpha. But, no, nobody has to die in Stephenie's little dream world except for evil Irina, who was simply mistaken and jumped to the wrong conclusion. Off with her head.
 
 Oh yeah, I loved how Jake took it upon himself to go tell Charlie, just to keep them from going out of town for a few months. How selfish can you be? How inconsiderate? Just another example of how he disrespects Bella's decisions. Still supposed to be her best friend and still unable to be supportive. If he couldn't stand the separation, why didn't he just go with them? They weren't going to the moon.
 
 I hate Renesmee but I like it better than Nessie. Couldn't they have called her Rennie.. or what about sticking Elizabeth in there somewhere for Edward's mother? But nothing tops Edward Jacob. I almost barfed. I'm sure Edward wanted to name his son that. What was Stephenie on when she wrote this???
 
 I was never worried that E and B wouldn't end up together. She's not THAT stupid. But I didn't see the baby or the imprinting coming. I thought we resolved the love triangle in Eclipse, but at the reception, there it was again. I wanted to scream and I wanted to slap Bella, and therefore, Stephenie. Jake is hugging her, so Edward comes back and Jake's stink is all over her Wedding Dress. Funny, it occurred to me but it didn't occur to Bella. She's always so worried about hurting Jake but she doesn't seem to worry about hurting Edward.
 
 The only time she did seem to consider his feelings was when she was trying to hide her own pain, with the pregnancy and the transformation. The only time. She could hang onto Jake all she wanted with never a backward glance in Edward's direction. Did Stephenie do that on purpose or did she just think that was acceptable behavior? Is she completely insensitive?
 
 Talk about a big build up with no climax... let's just chit chat with Aro and then glare at each other and then they'll turn around and go back to Italy. Yeah, that's a great ending; what a let down.
 
 And a love shield? Yeah, I like Lily Potter too, but I would try to come up with something original for my fourth novel, not something that's already been done by JK Rowling. And since when was Bella's love her strongest human trait? Her closed mind, yes, love shield, no.
</REVIEW>