<STARS>1.0</STARS>
<TITLE>A few reasons why you shouldn't get this game...</TITLE>
<DATE>June 27, 2010</DATE>
<AUTHOR>A. J. Herring "Daemon"</AUTHOR>
<PRODUCT>Demon's Souls (Video Game)</PRODUCT>
<REVIEW>
I wanted to like this game. I really did. I read the reviews beforehand and I looked at the screenshots. I ordered the game. 
 
 I even read that this is from the same people who made the King's Field series--I love King's Field. 
 
 I hate this game. 
 
 Is it because the game is too difficult? No. That's a bunch of newb complaints I've read. It has nothing to do with the difficulty of the game. I've put in over 28 hours of gameplay into this game. I've killed some archdemons and bosses in every world. I've got some of the gear. I've participated in the coop and I've had my world invaded by shadows several times. 
 
 No, I can say that I've put the time and effort into this game to really see that I don't like it. I thought "Hey, maybe this will become more fun." No, I was wrong. 
 
 Let me number some areas I think the developers got it wrong: 
 
 1. First and foremost they made this game completely unforgiving. What do I mean? Well, about halfway into the game I accidentally cast God's Wrath in the middle of the Nexus (the main area). I had just purchased the spell. Well it hit a vendor. A very important one that happens to store all of my gear. Guess what? There's no way to undo that. Now he just attacks me any time I get near him. Sure, I could kill him, but I would not be able to store my gear or retrieve my stored gear. You get to either A. Start your game completely over, or B. try to beat the game with the weight on your back. Either way this was an EXTREME annoyance to me. I already had about 18-20 hours invested when this happened and I basically got to watch all that effort go up in smoke. Would this game be more fun if this wasn't a problem? Sure. 
 
 2. There is not a lot of loot. The reward structure in this game is flawed. You'll go hours without finding anything you want to use, unless you can somehow decipher the wiki information out there and hunt down the treasure--if you can get to it. There are about 15 swords in the entire game. Oh, yeah, you can upgrade your weaponry if you feel like farming the stones. That's about all the variation you will get out of this game. 
 
 3. The coop system sucks. Plain and simple. It either won't load sometimes or you'll be baffled as to how it actually works. I don't want to study a manual or search google to play with my friends. 
 
 4. You'll farm endlessly to level your character. You'll probably mess your build up. You'll get to start over again to get the right build if you care anything about this game. I don't care, so I'm definitely not starting over. My build was pretty good anyway. 
 
 5. Finally, you'll die. You'll die quite a bit. You'll die after spending a half an hour trying to get to a boss only to start over again. This, again, is part of the reward structure that is completely flawed. 
 
 6. You can only equip things up to half your total weight capacity. On top of that, you have to have the endurance necessary to have "equip capacity" outside of that. So not only can you not equip anything you want up to your total weight, but you have to invest in separate branches to do it. It's similar to the magic side of things, too. You have to level your intelligence for your mana or mp, and you have to level your magic for the magic power. Then there is also faith magic, which is a completely different set. On top of that you only get so many slots based on the level of your intelligence or faith (depending on which one you're using). It's completely retarded. 
 
 Oh, well. It feels like a waste of 30 dollars and a lot of time.
</REVIEW>