<STARS>1.0</STARS>
<TITLE>More shallow, infantile pop music</TITLE>
<DATE>May 17, 2006</DATE>
<AUTHOR>Forest Law</AUTHOR>
<PRODUCT>A Girl Like Me (Audio CD)</PRODUCT>
<REVIEW>
Hey kids!  If you're looking for music that's as satisfying and refreshing as a frozen sugar cube, deeper than a pool that's a foot deep and more exciting than watching paint dry, look no further than Rihanna's album, A Girl Like Me!  Listen to her wonderful studio-altered, digitally processed voice!  Gasp at the thought-provoking lyrics about needing to be rescued, falling in love and wanting to make love all night long!  Marvel at the synths, bleeps and squiggly sound effects that represent real reggae!  Forget no-good corporate hacks like Bob Marley, Peter Tosh, Dennis Brown, Damian Marley, I Wayne and Sizzla, because Rihanna is the real deal and she wants you, boys!  What an astounding, brilliant, masterfully crafted work of perfection!  I like music, and I like Rihanna!  She's just as brilliant as amazing artists like Britney Spears, Good Charlotte and Simple Plan!  They should all tour together, how great would that be? ...
 
 ... Alright, enough already.  I can't keep this facade up any longer.  That was just me channeling one of those incredibly enthusiastic, overzealous Rihanna marks that think she's the greatest thing since sliced bread.  I wholeheartedly beg to differ.  While her work ethic is to be commended somewhat (second album in 8 or 9 months, but all she contributes is her weak vocals), A Girl Like Me is just another example of what's gone so horrible wrong with the music industry - the fact that labels still insist on pushing shallow disposable rubbish on everyone.  Essentially what is wrong with this album is presented in the first paragraph as backhanded compliments. 
 
 On top of this, the fact that Rihanna is just another Beyonce wannabe (who herself is a Diana Ross wannabe) just makes matters worse - the overuse of melismas on this album is enough to drive any sane person mad.  But what makes this album a special type of awful is the fact that it is being marketed as reggae.  Now, there's some people that feel that modern reggae artists (such as Elephant Man, Sean Paul, even Matisyahu) don't hold a candle to the originators (like Marley and Tosh), but I have grown to enjoy it and recognize it as the evolution of the genre.  However, Rihanna is as close to reggae as a band like Fall Out Boy is to punk - in other words, the term reggae must be used VERY loosely.  An occasional Caribbean drum flourish and use of the dialect does not a reggae song make.  This is much closer to a hybrid of Beyonce and Britney Spears, right down to keeping the barely legal Rihanna's wardrobe budget low by having her prance around in only the skimpiest of outfits.  I can just imagine these comments from the director at one of her video shoots: "Hey, Rihanna, what are you doing out here in your underwear?  Didn't that outfit that we ordered arrive yet?  What's that?  The record label wouldn't front the money to cover the cost of the wardrobe?  Oh well, I guess we'll shoot anyway.  One thing is certain: The teenage boys will love this video.".
 
 In summary: A Girl Like Me is only worth checking out if you can't get enough of banal, vacuous pop garbage.  This is not reggae, ska, soca, etc.  It's bubblegum pop, and it's a style that has run its course and is becoming very irritating.  It's easy to market, and that's why MTV is playing the video every 10 minutes.  Speaking of the single, it's really just juvenile lyrics buttressed by the melody of Soft Cell's version of "Tainted Love" - nothing special at all.  The rest of the album is equally shallow pop with only a slight Caribbean influence, bookended by remixes of songs from Rihanna's last album.  I urge you to look past MTV and "hit music" stations to find better music, reggae or otherwise.
</REVIEW>