<STARS>1.0</STARS>
<TITLE>Living in a mythology</TITLE>
<DATE>June 6, 2007</DATE>
<AUTHOR>Mark bennett "Mark"</AUTHOR>
<PRODUCT>A Woman in Charge: The Life of Hillary Rodham Clinton (Hardcover)</PRODUCT>
<REVIEW>
Presidents (and those aspiring) these days cannot live as real people. Like the Gods of Greek legend, they have to live in a mythology of their own creation. A Mythology is usually created to explain what is beyond the comprehension of the normal human or to hide secrets that "mere mortals" must be protected from. This book presents the life of Hillary Rodham Clinton as a mythology.
 
 If your a candidate for president today, one of the requirements is a book that tells a false inspirational version of your life story. The books spin every event in the person's life to make political points or to shore up what the campaign considers weaknesses. In saying this, I'm singling out this book or Hillary Clinton. She is by far not the only candidate with a book like this out right now.
 
 The strange thing about Hillary Clinton is that almost nobody really knows her. This book doesn't help. 
 
 Bernstein follows the established baby boomer script. She was born in an imaginary world of the 1950s that showed up in educational films and the TV show "Happy Days". Like all Boomers, she had a bad father who we are now told was more abusive and cruel than we were told he was before. Her mother was (by the script) a good caring person. 
 
 Then she discovers the civil rights movement, Martin Luther King Jr and the turmoil of the 1960s. Thats the script, but it never really happened that way. From other books, the more accurate picture is of the churchy "good girl" from the midwest whose political beliefs were rooted in an attempt to make the world better by "good works".
 
 The book then presents an utterly false account of life at Wellesley. The script has her flowering as a powerful woman ready to take on the world. The book captures the nostalgic view of the times, but not in any way the reality of that time. Berstein spins her up into the spokeswoman for her generation and a national figure in college but again it didn't happen that way.
 
 We are then presented with an account of her decision to move to Arkansas that again rings false. Yale Law grads that go to New York or Washington at graduation don't go there for idealism, they go there to make money. Neither is a place where she would have found a political future except as a consultant or a lobbyist.
 
 Bernstein then gives a false account of her time in Arkansas which does not deal with the realities of what that meant to her or the adjustments she had make in her life (and appearance) to enhance Bill Clinton's electability.
 
 When the scene shifts to Washington, we are given a spin version of the first two disasterous years of the Clinton presidency and a apologist version of her role in that disaster. Everything has a scripted excuse or explaination.  In terms of her qualifications to be president, her failures in 1992-1994 raise the most questions. Explaining away all the problems, as Berstein does, is not helpful. The health care initiative she ran was the biggest (and perhaps only) organization she ran in her life and reading the book its unclear if Berstein (or her) understand all of what she did wrong. 
 
 We are then presented with the usual false account of the marriage. She (and the book) play her as the victorian martyr wife tricked by the devious husband. Whatever really goes on in the marriage has never been covered accurately in my opinion by any book. False positive or false negative, what they all have in common is that they ring false.
 
 Then we have the happy ending. She is carried into the senate apparently on a wave of "sympathy". If you want to read about the strong-arming and backroom democratic politics that went into her senate candidacy, this isn't the book that will tell you.
 
 The book ends with the heroic sunset photo of her with her valued advisor, husband by her side, preparing to "save" the world by running for president. 
 
 This book is like a sappy made-for-TV movie about the life of Hillary Clinton. This is a person who cries out for a real biography but all we get is either demonization from right-wing cranks or political spin like this book. Her real life story (an honest one) would be an interesting read, but to be honest it would not serve her purpose or get her elected.
 
 It would be nice of our presidents and presidental aspirants could return to being human beings. But with presidential "libraries" these days resmebling temples of worship, the trend seems unlikely to go away.
</REVIEW>