<STARS>1.0</STARS>
<TITLE>Busted</TITLE>
<DATE>May 19, 2008</DATE>
<AUTHOR>Reid Sheftall M.D.</AUTHOR>
<PRODUCT>21 (Single-Disc Edition) (DVD)</PRODUCT>
<REVIEW>
I am the author of
 Striking It Rich: Golf in the Kingdom with Generals, Patients and Pros 
 
 As someone who generally reviews things I like (I reviewed "Rushmore" but passed on "I Heart Huchabees" and "Lost in Translation") I am a little uncomfortable doing this review. 
 I was a physics major at MIT and spent 2 years counting cards in Vegas and Reno after graduation. I was 21 when I started; the same age as the protagonist. I eventually tired of the card-counting lifestyle and went on to medical school. Chapter 3 in my book is entitled "The World's Biggest ATM". Its all about card-counting and my time at MIT. So I consider myself to be something of an expert on the subject matter in "21".
 Nothing is portrayed even close to reality in this movie. First of all, card counting itself is not that hard. Any student who can get into MIT can learn to count cards. Its not that mathematical either (in the Thorpe tens/non-tens system you have to do some quick division in your head but they were using a -1, 0, +1- type of system where you only have to add -1, 0 or +1 as each card is played). OK You have to have a good memory and be able to focus intensely without anyone noticing what you are doing. I happen to have a good memory. You probably do too.  It took me three weeks of learning the tables and practicing to become enough of an expert to be able to play in the casino for hours on end without making a mistake. And in case you're wondering...YES it works,
 But it is a job. With the systems now available, you can get an advantage of 2 or 3 percent over the house (the casino). It doesn't sound like much but if you play 100 hands per 60 minute hour at an average of $100 per hand, you have created $10,000 of "action". 3 % of that is $300.
 Per hour.
 And that's about how it works. To get $3,000 per day (more than $ 1 million per year) you have to play 10 hours; or you have to bet more. I played with my own money and needed to play with less at the beginning because you need enough of a bankroll (about 200 x your minimum bet) to make sure an unfortunate run of cards doesn't wipe you out. And unfortunate runs you do get at times. You only average $300 per hour in my example; sometimes  you make more, sometimes less. It's a fairly tedious undertaking that pays off gradually with time, time and more time at the tables.
 I wanted to love this movie- both subjects are near and dear to my heart- but I had heard that the book wasn't accurate either and I wasn't expecting too much. Even so, the movie (and book too- I eventually read it) fell far short of my low expectations . MIT wasn't portrayed accurately at all, starting with the two idiotic friends. That may be the characarture of MIT but it isn't anything like MIT. In my time there I never met anyone like that. The protagonist was pretty typical, nothing unusual in his abilities or background as MIT standards go. The Kevin Spacey  character could never exist; talking to another professor to get the kid out of an exam and give him an A. What!? And the casino scenes; oh the casino scenes... Those idiotic hand signals? C'mon, the cocktail waitresses would've picked up on those... Lawrence Fishbourne beating the tar out of people he caught counting!? I don't think so. The Nevada State Gaming Commission would shut `em down, pronto. (Getting caught cheating the casino with a dealer or by marking the cards, etc.- that might be different). But counting cards ISN'T ILLEGAL. Its not against the rules to use your brain. 
 In 2 years of playing on a regular basis (the casinos even pay for your flights and hotel rooms!) and sporadically after that- it really is addictive- nobody ever caught me counting; except once. That time, they just asked us to leave. They said we were disturbing the patrons.  "Gladly", we said, and just walked down the street to the next casino. Part of the problem with the movie is that its hard to make an entire movie about counting. There's just not enough material for a theatrical full-length feature film. (Its much more ideally-suited to a one hour documentary.) Ok, so what to do? Enter the two stupid friends and the side show about the 2.09 contest, the strip-joint girls cashing in the chips, ( I don't think so- a few of them might slip into the ladies room never to be seen again), the sob story about needing the money for medical school, etc. "Excuse me Mr. Future Doctor Millionaire, MIT math genius, Harvard Med Graduate,  don't take your mom's life savings, don't lie about the scholarship, just apply for a student loan like everyone else who's going to medical school." That's why it occupies only one of thirty-six chapters in my book . There's just not that much to the mechanics of counting and making it work in the casinos. The magic in counting cards is in the realization that it is a free ticket to as much money as you will ever want and that you will never have to work again. A "free" ticket? Not exactly. It turns out to be a job like any other. I made that clear in "Striking It Rich" and I too eventually went to medical school and became a surgeon. Who wants to count cards all day when they could do something useful (and if it matters to you) make the same amount of money in the process? Counting cards, MIT math geniuses, the very pretty female protagonist, etc. are all potentially sexy subjects but their sexiness was utterly lost in this book/movie. Where were the consultants who knew something about MIT? Casinos? One of our fine actors, Kevin Spacey, was a producer on this film. How could he let this happen? What were Spacey and the writers thinking?
 Nix the idiotic characterization of the kid who was making hundreds of thousands counting yet who insisted on stealing everything from bottles of booze to pens from the maid cart, and the entire team who was scared to try it without Spacey's corrupt professor at the helm... Uh, HELLO?- these are supposed to be our best and brightest, Mr. Producers...) A realistic portrayal of MIT students and of MIT, and of casino card counting could have been something  very entertaining. As  a lover of MIT, movies, card-counting, money, sexy, smart women, etc., all I could think was "What a waste!" 
 
 
</REVIEW>
