<STARS>3.0</STARS>
<TITLE>Watch out for protein poisoning</TITLE>
<DATE>November 5, 2009</DATE>
<AUTHOR>Samuel Horwitz "wacky"</AUTHOR>
<PRODUCT>Fresh Whole Rabbit (Misc.)</PRODUCT>
<REVIEW>
I understand that most of the reviews are fake and I would like to say that while I find them all very enjoyable and humorous, there is a something that a real customer of this product feels should be known.
 
 I purchased 10 of the rabbits for the purpose of making hare jerky (a tasty treat) when I was overcome with the desire to indulge in a bit of rabbit meat before the smoking process. Giving into my guilty urges, I took one rabbit for my own personal pre-jerky consumption and proceeded to eat the entire animal whole (I do not own a stove, only a plastic box and some firewood for smoking things, hence it was uncooked). After my little personal rabbit fiesta, I laid down to digest the food.
 
 This was a mistake. Within two hours, I had never felt worse. I used the trusty search engine "Bing" to do some armchair medical research while clutching a trashcan in the most horrendous gastric distress you can imagine (I do not have health insurance so I did not call the hospital). Quickly, I found out that a side effect to eating rabbit was "protein poisoning," a situation that arises when lean meat is eaten. It is also known as "rabbit starvation" because rabbit meat contains almost no fat whatsoever. Apparently, consumption of large amounts of protein with little or no carbohydrates or fat is dangerous. Well you imagine how much that tickled me angry. All ready to write an angry letter of protest to the rabbit meat industry about their marketing of a dangerous foodstuff, I stumbled to my writing desk but alas, I only made it 3 feet before collapsing in pain. The next 5 hours were like a blur as I lay on the floor writhing in my own waste seeing people and things from the past and quite possibly the future. I have experimented with drugs back in the day and let me tell you, nothing came as close to disconnecting me from the universe in the worst way possible, as this. No one ever wants to experience protein poisoning, I promise you.
 
 At about 10 in the evening I came to and used a chair and the wall to help pull myself off of the floor. I still felt sick and I went back to my computer to see if there was a cure. Suddenly it hit me, I needed to eat other macronutrients! I remembered the tub of lard I had been saving in the fridge and stumbled across my apartment. The pain only grew worse. I remembered reading that bodybuilders eat lots of protein. I have no idea how they do it. It must be horrible for them. My vegan friend has always said that anything over 20 grams of a protein a day is overkill and I'm inclined to believe him now. He is the healthiest person I know, he is very skinny but he doesn't have visible muscle (which he says is the result of toxins and not enough body fat to properly survive). I finally reached my fridge and reached in for the I Can't Believe It's Not Butter container with my stockpiled lard. I quickly shoveled it into my mouth and wouldn't you believe it but it only made me feel worse! I passed out again, the cold air of the fridge blowing onto me.
 
 I awoke three days later (according to my watch) at 7 at night. The fridge had apparently preserved my body as it fought the proteins for the first night but now my electricity was off because my bill was due yesterday. It didn't matter, my body had apparently started to win the fight around 2 nights ago and now I am pretty much back to normal. However, I SINCERELY DO NOT RECOMMEND RABBIT MEAT as it can potentially kill you, as it nearly did me.
 
 Five stars - 1 for nearly killing me - 1 slightly chewy - 1 no head + 1 made great jerky = 3 stars
</REVIEW>