<STARS>1.0</STARS>
<TITLE>a piece of religion-inflicted political bull*****</TITLE>
<DATE>June 29, 2010</DATE>
<AUTHOR>Annie Feng</AUTHOR>
<PRODUCT>Watchmen: The Director's Cut (Two-Disc Special Edition) (DVD)</PRODUCT>
<REVIEW>
I went into Watchmen with high expectations because I know that it's suppose to be like the best graphic novel ever. but I was not only horribly disappointed, but utterly disgusted. 
 Watchmen is a film filled with over the top preachy narration and lines with little storyline advancement because of all the flashbacks and tries to make you understand the alternate history, that the first 3/4 of the film you have absolute no idea what it's trying to get at (unless, of course you are familiar with the graphic novel it's based upon). Then at the end you realize that it's the same old same old (though only universaly WESTERN idealism):
 
 * human beings are inheritantely corrupt (thanks alot)
 * peace can only be achieved through catastrophe, in other words, without apocalyse or apocalyptical events, there can only be war (which I only agree to the degree that if you kept trying to convince people this, the religious fundies ought to be VERY HAPPY when they see this film)
 * There has to be a god-like scapegoat for it to be happen, and it's gonna be American (sorry Jesus Christ), and he will not actually be responsible for the apocalypse, only scapegoating it (ergo: if some God-like creature destroyed the entire human race, it's probably not his fault but corrupt human beings')
 
 last but not least that made me most angry:
 *women: if you got pregnant from rape, you should ALWAYS have the kid, because the kid will always turn out to be the best thing that ever happen to you. 
 
 I have to admit that Watchmen hides its clichedness well, it wasn't until the very end did I actually realize all this. But there was a point in which I thought it might head into a though-provoking direction, that it might actually get at a point that makes you go "hmm... interesting," and that's when Dr. Manhattan raise the conscience: what is so special about the lives of human beings, or lives in general, most part of galaxy (or universe if you'll make that assumption that earth is unique with life) get along just fine without life. 
 
 Interestingly good point, cool, that made me think for a moment
 
 then it got destroyed by the bottom-of-the barrel foolish "epiphany" of Dr. Manhattan that he should save human race because of Silk Spectral number two, because she is something good that came out of chaos. Therefore life must be special if "good life" can come out of chaos.
 
 If you just sit there and think this though for a moment you'll see that this logic makes absolutely NO SENSE WHATSOEVER. Why? because if you already take the assumption that all lives (and non-lives) are equal, as Dr. M suggests because he's so high and mighty and all that, then how would "rape" be catagorized as "chaos?" Rape and rape-like things happen often in the animal and, some would argue, plant and bacterial kingdom. It's only the fact that rape brings suffering to human beings, and we, the human beings, must PERCEIVE it as chaos because it brings suffering to us (mostly the women), will makes it "chaos." So you must assume that: 
 1. there's something special and non-chaotic (good) about human lives
 2. Rape brings suffering/chaos
 therefore conclusion:
 3. rape is chaotic.
 
 So this sudden "epiphany" of Dr. M basically just came out of nowhere, maybe it's because he does believe that human lives are special but just doesn't wanna show it since he's god and all that and it's just too humiliating and difficult to suffer in love in his condition. Not to mention after all the talk of anti-life, he's actually pro-life (not even pro-choice)!!
 
 A friend suggested to me that (he has read the graphic novel) the point is the irony: corrupted human beings (the watchmen) are the ones to rise above to save the human race. 
 interesting but whether or not the graphic novel perserves this idea, the movie certainly does not. Why? because the watchmen (in the movie) who actually fought the crimes either did it to appease their own vanity (to be like pharohs, to bring divine justice) or did it for thrills (which is like most of them). Hey apocalypse is coming, what better way to spend your Last Days then to have sex and kick some butt? Dude I would totally go for it. 
 
 Overall this film is painful to watch, especially for humanists/feminists like me. The only thing I learned from this film is that kept getting people paranoid about world-ending does it's self-fufilling prophecy thing. Sadly I already knew that since I have a B.A. in Psychology.
</REVIEW>