<STARS>1.0</STARS>
<TITLE>Only Hype. Epic Fail (C- Grade)</TITLE>
<DATE>June 8, 2010</DATE>
<AUTHOR>K. Garrabrant "Katiebabs"</AUTHOR>
<PRODUCT>The Passage (Hardcover)</PRODUCT>
<REVIEW>
Certain words from various sources have been quoted, describing Justin Cronin's The Passage as "gripping", "intense" and "epic". I guess The Passage is considered to be an epic, because it clocks in at close to 800 pages. But by the time I finished reading, I felt this was an epic fail of massive proportions, and unless another book comes along this year, The Passage will be my most disappointing and worst read book. The hype is not always correct, even when a well-known respected author supports a book in such a way where you must have it as soon as you can.
 
 The Passage begins in the not so distant future, around the year 2014. The first paragraph is somewhat poetic and confusing, where you have to read it a few times to digest it; much like the majority of this book: "Before she became the Girl from Nowhere- the One Who Walked In, the first and Last and Only, who lives a thousand years- she was just a little girl in Iowa, named Amy."
 
 Amy's mother, Jeanette, gave birth to Amy when she was only nineteen, impregnated by a married traveling salesman. Jeanette ends up becoming a prostitute. One night her latest John won't take no for an answer, and she kills him. Jeanette has no choice but to give up her six-year-old daughter and leaves Amy at a covenant. The nun who takes in Amy is a young black woman, Sister Lacey, who believes God sent Amy to her for a reason. Lacey has been having disturbing dreams. But this is nothing new since Lacey has been a little girl, she has always known, understood, because THE VOICE speaks to her. Lacey knows Amy will bring forth a new way of life on Earth. How does she know this? Because it's stated without any real reason given.
 
 Around the same time Amy is abandoned by her mother and thought of the second coming of who knows what by Sister Lacey, Special Agent Brad Wolgast and his partner have criss-crossed all over the Unites States to pick up a select group of inmates to be experimented on by the government. This has come about because Harvard professor, Jonas Lear, has gone into the wilds of the Bolivian jungle along with a group of scientist and grad students on behalf of the USMRIID (United States Army Medical Research Institute of Infectious Diseases). Less than a month in, Lear has grave news. Through emails with one of his Harvard associates, he tells about an attack by bloodthirsty bats, causing death and sickness in his group. He and the victims are eventually rescued by the US military. Wolgast figures out pretty quickly why twelve special inmates have been chosen. They are being infected purposely with the bat virus founded by Lear. But when Wolgast's boss orders him to pick up Amy for testing, that is when Wolgast knows something more sinister is at play.
 
 For some reason Amy is the key to this all. Again, no reason is given and should only be taken at face value. Wolgast will put his life in danger to save Amy. But by then it's too late. Wolgast and Amy are able to escape, but those twelve inmates have transformed into "virals", bloodthirsty, hiding in trees, almost zombie like creatures who crave blood. And from some mind hypnosis and hallucinations through dreams, they can control humans and are able to make their way out into the world.
 
 Wolgast and Amy hide in the mountains. From very limited newspaper reports, he reads about the downfall of civilization and how the virals are infecting and multiplying. Amy has changed. She can no longer stand sunlight and doesn't seem to age, but hasn't crossed over as a viral for some reason. Again, no explanation why. There is one last resort by the US government to stop the viral apocalypse. An atomic bomb is dropped.
 
 Ninety-two years after the virals have wreaked havoc on the Unites States, (there's no knowledge of how the other European countries have faired because all communication has ceased) the remaining humans, who were mainly children rounded up by the US military, have carved a life out for themselves. These closed off communities in the mid central United States have found a way to carry on. The virals only come out at night and attack, so the humans armed with their bow and arrows, and protective high protective fences, keep these creatures at bay. There is a select colony mentioned in the San Jacinto Mountains near California to show this perfectly. But lately everyone is on edge. Their source of electricity is running out and the virals are evolving. And then a young girl comes out of nowhere who some have dreamt of. She is Amy, the ageless, and the only one who can destroy the virals. The people of the First Colony must travel back to where it all began and bring Amy to the one who calls for her.
 
 The first section of The Passage will grab hold and not let up. Cronin sets into motion a tension filled tale that you assume will have you shaking in fear. Unfortunately, due to very long winded paragraphs and so much information being handed out, without any explanation, The Passage is more of a mind numbing vision quest with heavy, almost in your face religious and spiritual mentions. I was so bogged down with so much telling and not enough showing. The majority of the time I was very confused. Cronin doesn't give any plausible reasons, and we are just supposed to take it as fact and move on.
 
 Most of the characters appear, where we are privy to their backgrounds, much like a biography, and then they disappear, only to re-appear again and bring nothing more to the story. This happens way too often. I couldn't connect with anyone, not even Amy. I felt very much like an outsider as I read. The virals, that should be scary boogieman type creatures, were glazed over in such a way that when they barely come out from the shadows they are hiding in to cause shock and horror, were incredibly tame and dull if anything. 
 
 The overuse of the two words, "I am" became beyond tedious. Talk about a mantra that will give you a headache. Perhaps the title should have been I Am instead of The Passage? Amy can hear the virals' thoughts, as I am John, Dick, Harry... I am the former Walrus, goo goo ga joob. 
 
 I wasn't gripped, amazed or enthralled in any way. I felt like I was reading one of those literary journals I used for research back in college. 300 pages could have been eliminated easily to make it a much tighter read. In essence, the idea of a new spin on a vampire apocalypse sounds perfect, but the way Cronin wrote it, he has missed the mark big time. The Passage will no doubt become a best seller and will prove that a very lacking book can become an overnight sensation based on amazing hype, the support of much respected industry types, and an expensive marketing and promotion plan from the publisher. 
 
 Katiebabs
</REVIEW>